The sale , which had been expected , is part of KKR 's program to pay down $ 5 billion of a $ 6 billion bridge loan by February .
Roughly $ 2 billion of that debt has already been repaid from previous asset sales , and RJR expects to use another $ 2 billion from the pending , two-part sale of most of its Del Monte unit .
Thus , it remains crucial for RJR to obtain top dollar for its smaller assets like the candy brands .
Louis Gerstner Jr. , chairman and chief executive officer of New York-based RJR , called the sale a `` significant step '' in the company 's divestiture program , as well as a `` a strategic divestiture . ''
Since KKR bought RJR in February for $ 25 billion of debt , it has agreed to sell nearly $ 5 billion of RJR assets .
RJR 's executives have said they will dispense with certain brands , in particular , that are n't leaders in their markets .
Baby Ruth and Butterfinger are both among the top-selling 15 chocolate bars in the U.S. , but RJR 's overall share of the roughly $ 5.1 billion market is less than 5 % .
Nestle 's share of 7 % before Friday 's purchases is far below the shares of market leaders Hershey Foods Corp. and Mars Inc. , which have about 40 % and 36 % of the market , respectively .
`` This means Nestle is now in the candybar business in a big way , '' said Lisbeth Echeandia , publisher of Orlando , Fla.-based Confectioner Magazine .
Arthur Klein , president of Young & amp ; Rubicam 's New York office , stepped down `` temporarily '' in the wake of charges by a federal grand jury in New Haven , Conn. , that he , the agency and another top executive bribed Jamaican tourist officials to win its account in 1981 .
In an internal memo , Alex Kroll , the agency 's chairman , said Mr. Klein decided to remove himself to minimize `` negative reaction '' from prospective clients and others and to prepare for his defense .
Mr. Klein will work with Mr. Kroll on some of the agency 's joint venture activities and acquisitions while the case is pending .
Peter Georgescu , president of Y & amp ; R 's ad operations , will assume Mr. Klein 's day-to-day role .
Wells Rich 's New Partner
Wells , Rich , Greene named Cheryl Heller as an executive vice president and creative partner in its image group , which concentrates on fashion and visually oriented advertising .
Mr. Bergsma said Akzo hopes to have approval to sell its Marvelon pill in the U.S. in 1992 .
Akzo also has small operations in diagnostic tests , generic drugs and veterinary products .
Veterinary products are showing especially strong growth , Mr. Bergsma said .
Among the leading products is a flu shot for horses .
But in the end his resignation as Chancellor of the Exchequer may be a good thing , especially if it works as he no doubt intends -- by forcing Prime Minister Thatcher and her counterparts elsewhere to confront the genuine intellectual issues involved .
The Fleet Street reaction was captured in the Guardian headline , `` Departure Reveals Thatcher Poison . ''
British politicians divide into two groups of chickens , those with their necks cut and those screaming the sky is falling .
So far as we can see only two persons are behaving with a dignity recognizing the seriousness of the issues : Mr. Lawson and Sir Alan Walters , the counterpoint of the Chancellor 's difficulties , who also resigned as personal adviser to Mrs. Thatcher .
This is a problem not only for Prime Minister Thatcher but for President Bush , as shown in the ongoing bickering over the dollar between the Federal Reserve and the Mulford Treasury .
And some of its top client-service executives , including Mr. Phillips , were promoted to the point they were saddled with administrative duties , with little time to see clients .
But Mr. Phillips recently freed himself up to spend more time with clients by delegating much of his administrative work to a deputy .
He also plans to get to know clients that Mr. Roman was closer to , such as Lever Brothers , American Express and Seagram .
`` There is little or no integration of our work , quality is spotty , there is no single focus , '' Mr. Phillips complained to staffers in March , when the reorganization was announced .
Now Mr. Phillips says he hopes to have the new system in place for several clients -- including American Express , American Telephone & amp ; Telegraph and Ryder -- by year 's end .
Nearby Paul Craig Roberts , a distinguished supply-sider with monetarist sympathies , argues the case for Sir Alan .
Perhaps the fiscal shock of tax cuts is after all best absorbed by floating rates , though of course in the event Mr. Lawson resigned over whether to support a weak pound , not restrain a strong one .
We recall that Mr. Roberts not only chides the Chancellor for being too easy because of a desire to constrain sterling , but also led the chorus saying that Mr. Volcker was too tight when he let the dollar rise .
We sympathize with Mrs. Thatcher 's reluctance to tie her currency to one governed by the domestic political imperatives of West Germany .
Alan Reynolds of Polyconomics adds his suspicion that the unrecognized inflationary culprit is the budget surplus .
Mr. Reynolds also notes that since British banks have no reserve requirements , high interest rates are less likely to curb inflation than to cause recession .
We would add that in political terms , Mrs. Thatcher 's problem was failing to decide between the Chancellor and her adviser .
So Mr. Lawson had to resign .
British government bonds ended little changed as investors awaited an economic policy address last night by Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson .
The Treasury 11 % bond due 2003\/2007 was down 2\/32 at 111 to yield 10.09 % , while the 11 % notes due 1991 were unchanged at 98 to yield 12.94 % .
In Japan , the bellwether No . 111 4.6 % bond of 1998 ended off 0.03 at 95.72 , to yield 5.32 % , and in West Germany , the 7 % benchmark issue due October 1999 ended 0.05 point lower at 99.85 to yield 7.02 % .
SHEVARDNADZE ADMITTED that Moscow violated the 1972 ABM treaty .
In a foreign-policy address before the Soviet legislature , the foreign minister conceded that the radar station in Krasnoyarsk breached the superpower Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty and said it would be dismantled .
Shevardnadze said it took Gorbachev 's government four years to determine that the station 's location in Siberia violated the accord , as Western arms-control officials have long contended .
He also denounced Moscow 's nine-year involvement in the war in Afghanistan , saying it involved `` gross violations of ... civil norms and ethics . ''
Secretary of State Baker , in his first major arms-control speech , called for a new military relationship with Moscow to reduce `` first strike '' nuclear arms .
BAY AREA COMMUTERS BATTLED earthquake-related transportation snarls .
Travelers crowded into subways , sat in traffic jams on major freeways or waited for buses in the rain , but the massive gridlock anticipated by officials in the San Francisco Bay area never materialized .
Archive attributed the gains to strong demand for its products , continued growth of the reseller market and the acquisition of Maynard Electronics in February , which accounted for about 14 % of the company 's revenue .
UNITED AIR 'S PARENT quashed any prospects for an immediate revival of the labor-management buy-out , saying UAL should remain independent for now .
Also , UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf pulled out of the buy-out effort to focus on running the company .
The Dow Jones industrials sank 26.23 points , to 2662.91 .
Time Warner reported a $ 176 million loss for the third quarter , reflecting the cost of the recent merger and a method of accounting for the deal .
Exxon 's profit fell 9 % in the third quarter , hurt by sagging results at two of its three main businesses .
Phillips and Arco posted declines .
Ashland had a loss .
The statement came after officials said Bush complained at a private meeting last week that a strict interpretation of a policy requires the U.S. to notify foreign dictators of certain coup plots .
Lebanon 's Gen. Aoun placed Christian military forces on alert in case of renewed fighting with Syrian-backed Moslems after Lebanon 's two main Shiite militias rejected an Arab-sponsored peace accord .
NATO defense ministers are expected to call for a reduction in nuclear forces in Europe when the alliance 's nuclear planning group convenes a two-day session today in Portugal .
The ministers are to reshape NATO 's defenses in Western Europe amid fast-paced changes in the Soviet bloc .
Iran 's President Rafsanjani offered to help gain freedom for Western hostages in Lebanon , but said the assistance was contingent on U.S. aid in resolving the cases of three Iranians kidnapped in Lebanon in 1982 or the release of frozen Iranian assets .
Washington rejected the bid , saying the hostages were n't linked to other issues .
PLO leader Arafat asked Egypt to seek clarifications from the U.S. on Secretary of State Baker 's plan for Mideast peace talks , an aide to Egyptian President Mubarak said .
Vail , Colo. , now has a playland that looks like an old mining town ; kids can ski through and pan for fool 's gold .
`` Most parents who had to go through that never came back , '' says Michael Shannon , president of Vail Associates Inc. , which owns and operates the Vail and nearby Beaver Creek resorts .
During Winter Carnival week , for example , visitors at Sunday River in Maine can take a hot-air balloon ride .
`` People these days want something else to do besides ski and sit in the bar , '' says Don Borgeson , executive director of Angel Fire , N.M. 's Chamber of Commerce .
An American Express Co. survey of its travel agents revealed that only 34 % believe their clients will pick a trip this winter based on the availability of winter sports , as opposed to 69 % who think that warm-weather sports will be the deciding factor .
`` Even if they could bring in that many new skiers , I do n't know if { the industry } could handle that kind of an increase , '' says I. William Berry , editor and publisher of the Ski Industry Letter in Katonah , N.Y .
Yesterday , Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. said it postponed a $ 220 million senior subordinated debenture offering by York International Corp .
On Wednesday , Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. had to slash the size of Continental Airlines ' junk-bond offering to $ 71 million from $ 150 million .
Consider Oil of Olay , which P & amp ; G acquired as part of Richardson-Vicks International in 1985 .
`` Oil of Olay brought with it the baggage of being used basically by older women who had already aged , '' says David Williams , a consultant with New England Consulting Group .
P & amp ; G set out to reposition the brand by broadening the product line to include facial cleansers and moisturizers for sensitive skin .
It also redesigned Oil of Olay 's packaging , stamping the traditional pink boxes with gold lines to create a more opulent look .
Moreover , P & amp ; G shifted its ad campaign from one targeting older women to one featuring a woman in her mid-30s vowing `` not to grow old gracefully . ''
Goliaths like Unilever and P & amp ; G have enormous financial advantages over smaller rivals .
Next year , Noxell plans to roll out a perfume called Navy , says George L. Bunting Jr. , chairman of Noxell .
Without P & amp ; G 's backing , Noxell might not have been able to spend the estimated $ 5 million to $ 7 million needed to accomplish that without scrimping on its existing brands .
Rumors that Unilever is interested in acquiring Schering-Plough Corp. 's Maybelline unit are widespread .
The public made up its mind about Gen. Noriega largely as a result of the hearings I chaired in the Subcommittee on Terrorism and Narcotics of the Foreign Relations Committee on Feb. 8 , 9 , 10 and 11 , 1988 , and again on April 4 , 1988 .
It was during those hearings that the nation first learned the breadth and depth of Gen. Noriega 's criminality , and of his enduring relationships with a variety of U.S. government agencies .
Those hearings also highlighted how Gen. Noriega was able to use his relationships with these agencies to delay U.S. action against him , and to exploit the administration 's obsession with overthrowing the Sandinistas to protect his own drug-dealing .
As former Ambassador to Costa Rica Francis J. McNeil testified before the subcommittee , the Reagan administration knew that Gen. Noriega was involved with narcotics , but made a decision in the summer of 1986 `` to put Gen. Noriega on the shelf until Nicaragua was settled . ''
As the report issued by the subcommittee concluded , `` Our government did nothing regarding Gen. Noriega 's drug business and substantial criminal involvement because the first priority was the Contra war .
Unfortunately , this problem continued even after Gen. Noriega 's indictment .
Sen. John Kerry ( D. , Mass . )
After doubling production in one plant , NEC is spending $ 275 million to build another plant that , in two years , will be able to make a million four-megabit DRAMs a year .
The new chip plants `` wo n't be excessive investment , '' says Hajime Sasaki , an NEC vice president .
Toyota 's $ 35,000 Lexus automobile , a luxury model that it started shipping to the U.S. only last month , is racking up orders at a time when U.S.-made luxury-car sales are slow .
Amdahl Corp. , a maker of mainframe computers , reported a sharp decline in net income for its third quarter , citing pricecutting by competitors and adverse effects from a strong U.S. dollar .
Jay Stevens , an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds , said he expected the Sunnyvale , Calif. , company to earn 35 cents a share for the quarter and said the firm 's weaker profit was partly the result of increased competition from International Business Machines Corp. , Amdahl 's principal competitor for mainframe sales .
Adolph Coors Co. said William K. Coors , chairman , assumed the additional responsibilities of president , succeeding Jeffrey H. Coors .
Jeffrey Coors , 44 years old , had been president since 1985 , when he succeeded his father Joseph in the job .
Mr. Skase also said the restructuring plan calls for the merger of Qintex Australia with Qintex Ltd. , which owns 55 % of Qintex Australia .
Company officials said over the weekend that Qintex Australia 's bank creditors have become concerned about a barrage of bad news at the company , including a failed US $ 1.5 billion plan to buy MGM\/UA Communications Co. , a Beverly Hills , Calif. , movie and television production concern .
Friday , Qintex Entertainment Inc. , a 43 % - owned U.S. affiliate , filed for protection from creditor lawsuits under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code .
Analysts predicted that the move would further shake creditor confidence in Qintex Australia and force it to sell assets .
The company 's latest moves were disclosed after the Australian Stock Exchange suspended trading in shares of Qintex Australia and Qintex Ltd. because the companies had n't answered an exchange inquiry about the extent of their loans , investments and deposits at Qintex Entertainment .
Mr. Skase 's statement was addressed to the stock exchange and appeared to be a response to the inquiry .
It said Qintex Entertainment owes Qintex Australia US $ 38.1 million in loans not secured by specific assets .
Qintex Australia also said it has an investment of A $ 83.3 million in Qintex Entertainment shares .
In the statement , Mr. Skase said that on the basis of current interest rates in Australia , the company 's asset sales would reduce interest expense by about A $ 120 million a year in addition to eliminating certain liabilities .
In March , Qintex sold 49 % of the three Mirage resorts to Japan 's Nippon Shinpan Co. and Mitsui & amp ; Co. for A $ 433 million .
Many airlines are talking about cargo ventures , and there have been rumors about such a tie between JAL and European airlines .
In Tokyo , a JAL spokesman said he could n't confirm or deny the latest Japanese report .
But he said JAL is talking to Lufthansa and Air France about some sort of cargo venture .
In Frankfurt , a Lufthansa spokesman confirmed talks are under way , but declined to comment .
A Lufthansa spokeswoman in Tokyo said the head of Lufthansa 's cargo operations had been in Toyko last week for talks with JAL .
In Paris , Air France declined to comment .
According to figures from the International Air Transport Association , they carried a combined 1.8 million tons of freight last year .
Federal Express and Flying Tiger , as separate companies , carried a combined 2.6 million tons .
It was then split into Playtex Apparel Inc. , the intimate apparel division , and Playtex Family Products Corp. , which makes tampons , hair-care items and other products .
Publicly traded VF Corp. , which owns Vanity Fair , and Sara Lee Corp. , which owns Bali Co. , are also strong forces in intimate apparel .
Buy-out offers for Maidenform are n't infrequent , says Executive Vice President David C. Masket , but they are n't taken very seriously .
`` Over the past three and a half years , apparel companies , many of whom have strong brand names , have been bought at about 60 % of sales , '' says Deborah Bronston , Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. apparel analyst .
Mr. Brawer , along with Mrs. Coleman and her daughter , Elizabeth , an attorney who is vice chairman , are the family members involved in the operations of Maidenform , which employs about 5,000 .
Mr. Brawer 's wife , Catherine , and Robert Stroup , Elizabeth 's husband , round out the five-member board .
Her father , William Rosenthal , designed the then-dress making company 's first bra in the 1920s , which he said gave women a `` maiden form '' compared with the `` boyish form '' they got from the `` flat bandages '' used for support at the time .
Tolstoy 's characters eat , Pushkin 's , Gogol 's . ''
In her cookbook , which Macmillan is bringing out in soft cover this month ( with the blini recipe revised so it works ) , she introduces each chapter with appropriate quotations from Russian literature : Pushkin on blini , Goncharov on piroghi .
By 1973 , after their second child was born , it had become clear to Ms. Volokh and her husband Vladimir , a computer scientist , that they wanted to leave the U.S.S.R .
Ms. Volokh quit her job , to remove herself from the public eye .
Before granting Ms. Volokh 's parents a visa , the government required her mother to obtain permission from her first husband , whom she had divorced 38 years earlier .
Mr. Volokh was fired from his job , and had to endure hours of organized verbal abuse from his co-workers , accusations of sabotage and counterrevolutionary activities .
The Volokhs were afraid that they 'd end up like a friend of theirs who 'd applied for a visa and waited for 10 years , having been demoted from his profession of theoretical mathematician to shipping clerk .
Their visa came in relatively short order , and they moved to Los Angeles .
Mr. Volokh soon found work in his field , but Ms. Volokh refused the obvious and available occupation - as translator for a Russian who spoke fluent English .
On the way to that goal , she received her first U.S. paycheck for proofreading a book of Polish poetry , attended secretarial school , then went to work for a fund-raising organization .
`` Insurance companies will foot a substantial amount of the bill to reconstruct San Francisco , '' said Charles Lieberman , chief economist at Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp .
A report issued late yesterday by Standard & amp ; Poor 's Corp. concluded the quake wo n't cause `` wide-scale credit deterioration '' for issuers and debt issues in the 12-county area of Northern California affected by the quake .
The Continental junk bond offering , underwritten by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , was the only new issue priced yesterday .
Chemical Securities Inc. is acting as agent for the seller .
Washington , D.C. , topped the competitive slate yesterday with a sale of $ 200 million of general obligation tax revenue anticipation notes .
The five partners who resigned from Shea & amp ; Gould late last week are Tom Hutton , Sam Ingram , Dean Yuzek , Daniel Carroll and Ernest Bertolotti .
They will be joined by Larry Gainen , who resigned from the firm of LePatner , Gainen & amp ; Block .
Howard Rubenstein , a New York publicist who represents Shea & amp ; Gould , said , `` Shea & amp ; Gould understands they 're leaving because they wanted a different environment -- a smaller firm they would be principals of . ''
Mr. Rubenstein said the five , who were n't on Shea & amp ; Gould 's management committee , `` are leaving on good terms . ''
He said Shea & amp ; Gould held a number of discussions with the five partners during the past few weeks to get them to stay but that the five were firmly committed to running their own firm .
Hutton Ingram will have a general corporate , securities , real-estate and litigation practice , and a substantial practice serving the professional-design community .
DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS against lawyers open to public in Illinois .
In addition , Illinois attorneys will lose the right to sue clients who file malicious complaints against them .
Illinois joins 36 other states that allow public participation in attorney-disciplinary proceedings and 32 states that open disciplinary hearings to the public , according to the American Bar Association .
One vocal critic of the changes , Chicago lawyer Warren Lupel , says non-lawyers should n't be on the inquiry panels because they are unlikely to appreciate the nuances of attorney-client relationships .
In restaurants ( in this case , the Russian Samovar , a New York restaurant operated by and for Soviet emigres ) , she did n't want the chirpy , folkish music bouncing through the room .
As publisher of a magazine devoted to movies as guideposts for fashion and other fantasies , Ms. Volokh sees her party-giving as an important part of business .
She serves high Russian tea , at 5 p.m .
She also frequently invites directors , producers , actors , writers and other show business people for `` coffee and clips in the pleasure dome . ''
`` We believe that every drug that 's marketed to a consumer should have a consumer label , '' said Douglas Teich of the Public Citizen Health Research Group , a Ralph Nader affiliate .
Dr. Teich said Searle is `` the only company I know that voluntarily '' will make consumer information available .
`` We think it 's very important to provide as much information as possible on the drugs consumers take , '' said Searle Chairman Sheldon Gilgore .
Early yesterday , bonds rose as investors rushed to buy Treasury securities on the prospect that stocks would plummet in the aftermath of the massive California earthquake .
With stocks not a major focus , `` we 're waiting for the next guiding light , '' said Brian J. Fabbri , chief economist at Midland Montagu Securities Inc .
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond , which jumped 3\/8 point , or about $ 3.75 for each $ 1,000 face amount , during the first hour of trading , ended little changed .
RJR Holdings Capital Corp. 's 14.7 % bonds due 2009 fell one point .
Other RJR issues fell between 1\/2 point and 1 point .
In the latest sign of how difficult it is to place certain junk bonds , Continental Airlines said it was forced to scale back the size of its latest offering .
When a caller reaches Telelawyer by dialing 900-TELELAW , a receptionist refers the call to one of six attorneys .
In an effort to determine whether a caller has reason to sue , Cane lawyers review documents and perform research , if necessary , with the help of three law clerks and several support staffers .
If the matter requires further legal work or litigation , Mr. Cane says , his lawyers may refer the client to a law firm .
But he says Cane & amp ; Associates does n't receive referral fees .
So far , says Mr. Cane , most calls have involved landlord-tenant problems , tax problems , divorce , and probate questions .
A federal court jury in New York found U.S. Rep. Robert Garcia ( D. , N.Y . ) and his wife , Jane Lee Garcia , guilty of extorting $ 76,000 from Wedtech in return for official acts by the congressman .
The jury also convicted them of extortion in obtaining a $ 20,000 , interest-free loan from a Wedtech officer .
The jury found them guilty of conspiracy in obtaining the payments , some of which were disguised as fees for consulting services from Mrs. Garcia .
Wedtech , which became embroiled in political-corruption cases that eventually led to its demise , formerly was a minority-owned South Bronx , N.Y. , defense contractor .
Japan 's Daiwa Securities named Masahiro Dozen president .
When Anne Volokh and her family immigrated to the U.S. 14 years ago , they started life in Los Angeles with only $ 400 .
Her husband and older son -- a computer prodigy profiled in The Wall Street Journal in 1981 , when he was 13 -- run a software company with expected sales this year of $ 10 million .
Most recently , she has become the publisher of Movieline , a four-year-old Los Angeles magazine that began national distribution last month , with an initial press run of 100,000 copies .
Distributed by the Hearst Corp. 's Eastern News , the glossy publication melds Vanity Fair 's gossipy archness and Premiere 's earnest delving into behind-the-scenes minutiae , with a special emphasis on Tinseltown as fashion trendsetter .
`` They 've had this field to themselves for over a year now , and they 've been greatly rewarded , '' said Bob Katsive , an analyst at Disk\/Trend Inc. , a market researcher in Los Altos , Calif .
Next month , Seagate Technology , which is the dominant supplier of hard-disk drives for personal computers , plans to introduce its first family of low-power drives for battery-operated computers .
`` They are going to catch up , '' said David Claridge , an analyst with Hambrecht & amp ; Quist .
Both Toshiba and NEC already produce hard-disk drives , and Sony also is studying the field , Mr. Claridge said .
`` Most of our competitors are announcing products based on our ( older ) products , '' said Finis Conner , chief executive officer and founder of the firm that bears his name .
These new products could account for as much as 35 % of the company 's business in 1990 , Mr. Conner estimated .
Conner already is shipping its new drives .
Last week , for instance , Compaq introduced its first notebook computer to rave reviews .
General Electric Co. received a $ 30.6 million Air Force contract for MX-missile nose cones .
Goodyear Tire & amp ; Rubber Co. was awarded a $ 19.1 million Army contract for armored-vehicle parts .
Analytic Sciences Corp. was awarded a $ 10.1 million Air Force contract for technical support .
In a blow to France 's Rafale jet fighter , the French navy for the first time publicly stated its desire to buy 15 McDonnell Douglas Corp. . F-18 Hornets to defend its aircraft carriers .
The statement is likely to sharpen the debate within France 's military establishment over the Rafale , which is made by Avions Marcel Dassault-Breguet Aviation SA .
In an interview in the navy 's official weekly magazine Cols Bleus , the navy 's second-in-command , Adm. Yves Goupil , said the navy still intends to buy 86 Rafales as scheduled in the late 1990s and early 21st century .
Adm. Goupil said the navy ca n't wait until 1998 , when the naval Rafale becomes available , to replace its obsolete fleet of American-made Crusaders , used since the 1950s to protect carriers from attack .
Rather than renovate the Crusaders , which Dassault is proposing to do for around 1.8 billion French francs ( $ 286.6 million ) , Adm. Goupil said the navy wants to buy used F-18s from the U.S. Navy .
Adm. Goupil said that when the F-18s wear out , the navy is prepared to take Rafales to replace them .
Even though the government would retain the 45 % stake in Picop , critics have accused the trust of selling out to foreigners .
Mr. Garcia says he has been notified of congressional hearings on the Picop bidding and possible legislation covering the paper mill 's sale , both prompted by the criticism of the agency .
The carrier has valuable trans-Pacific and Asian routes but it remains debt-laden and poorly managed .
Guillermo Ortiz 's Sept. 15 Americas column , `` Mexico 's Been Bitten by the Privatization Bug , '' is a refreshingly clear statement of his government 's commitment to privatization , and must be welcomed as such by all Americans who wish his country well .
It is not quite true , for example , that the Mexican government has `` privatized '' Mexicana de Aviacion , as Mr. Ortiz claims .
Regrettably , too , Mr. Ortiz resorts to the familiar `` numbers game '' when he boasts that `` fewer than 392 { state enterprises } currently remain in the public sector , '' down from the `` 1,155 public entities that existed in 1982 .
High cash positions help buffer a fund when the market falls . Prospect Street High Income Portfolio , for instance , now holds about 15 % in cash and equivalents , nearly quintuple the amount it held earlier this year , says John Frabotta , portfolio co-manager .
At the 50 % - leveraged Zenith Income Fund , portfolio manager John Bianchi recently dumped Mesa Petroleum , Wickes and Horsehead Industries , among others , to raise his cash position to a record 15 % .
`` We 're looking at the leverage factor every day , '' says Robert Moore , president of Bernstein-Macaulay Inc. , a Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. unit and the fund 's adviser .
A volcano will erupt next month on the fabled Strip : a 60-foot mountain spewing smoke and flame every five minutes .
Visitors , whisked from the Strip on a moving walkway , will glide over a habitat for rare white tigers , which will star in performances by the famed illusionist team of Siegfried & amp ; Roy .
Nearby , six dolphins will frolic in a 1.5 million-gallon saltwater aquarium .
In the lobby behind its nine-story , orchid-strewn atrium , a 20,000-gallon aquarium will come alive with sharks , stingrays , angelfish , puffers and other creatures of the deep .
Mr. Terrizzi confirms some clients have left Renaissance , but no major ones , and the firm has added new accounts .
The Sept. 25 `` Tracking Travel '' column advises readers to `` Charge With Caution When Traveling Abroad '' because credit-card companies charge 1 % to convert foreign-currency expenditures into dollars .
In contrast to the 1 % conversion fee charged by Visa , foreign-currency dealers routinely charge 7 % or more to convert U.S. dollars into foreign currency .
Assets of the 400 taxable funds tracked by IBC\/Donoghue 's Money Fund Report jumped to $ 351.2 billion in the week ended Tuesday , the Holliston , Mass.-based newsletter said .
The average seven-day compound yield , which assumes that dividends are reinvested and that current rates continue for a year , fell to 8.47 % , its lowest since late last year , from 8.55 % the week before , according to Donoghue 's .
`` Lower yields are just reflecting lower short-term interest rates , '' said Brenda Malizia Negus , editor of Money Fund Report .
Money funds invest in such things as short-term Treasury securities , commercial paper and certificates of deposit , all of which have been posting lower interest rates since last spring .
The yield on six-month Treasury bills sold at Monday 's auction , for example , was just 7.77 % .
It was the first time since January that Renaissance has thought stocks are worth owning .
Renaissance declined to confirm the move , but its stock purchases were thought to have begun Tuesday , timed to coincide with the maturity this week of Treasury bills owned by the firm .
Wall Street executives said they believed that Renaissance 's $ 900 million buy program was carried out by PaineWebber Inc .
As reported , PaineWebber bought shares Tuesday as part of a customer strategy shift , although the broker 's client was said then to have been Japanese .
Yesterday , PaineWebber declined comment .
When it owns stocks , Renaissance 's portfolio typically is composed of about 60 large-capitalization issues ; to make buy or sell moves , the firm solicits Wall Street brokerage houses a day or so in advance , looking for the best package price to carry out the trades .
Renaissance 's last portfolio shift , carried out by Goldman , Sachs & amp ; Co. , was a highly publicized decision last January to sell its entire stock portfolio and buy Treasury bills .
The sell signal , which sent a bearish chill through the stock market , came when Renaissance 's computer found that stocks were overpriced compared with bonds and Treasury bills .
The Dow average now stands more than 20 % higher , while Renaissance 's portfolio of Treasurys produced a return of about 6 % through the first three quarters of the year .
Michael Ross , a New York lawyer who heads the ABA 's grand jury committee , said that lawyers are prohibited by the ABA 's code of ethics from disclosing information about a client except where a court orders it or to prevent the client from committing a criminal act that could result in death .
Mr. Ross said he met with officials of the IRS and the Justice Department , which would bring any enforcement actions against taxpayers , to discuss the issue last May .
Mr. Ross said IRS officials opposed the Justice Department 's moderate stance on the matter .
But in the letters sent in recent days , Christopher J. Lezovich of the IRS computing center in Detroit , told attorneys that `` failing to voluntarily submit the requested information could result in summons enforcement action being initiated . ''
In some cases , the IRS asked for information dating back to forms it received in 1985 .
Often , judges ease into more lucrative private practice with little fanfare , but not federal Judge Raul A. Ramirez in Sacramento , Calif .
Czechoslovakia said in May it could seek $ 2 billion from Hungary if the twindam contract were broken .
A painting by August Strindberg set a Scandinavian price record when it sold at auction in Stockholm for $ 2.44 million .
`` Lighthouse II '' was painted in oils by the playwright in 1901 ...
After years of decline , weddings in France showed a 2.2 % upturn last year , with 6,000 more couples exchanging rings in 1988 than in the previous year , the national statistics office said .
Boeing Co. said it is discussing plans with three of its regular Japanese suppliers to possibly help build a larger version of its popular 767 twin-jet .
The discussions are still in preliminary stages , and the specific details have n't been worked out between the Seattle aerospace company and Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. , Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. and Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd .
The three Japanese companies build the body sections of the 767 , accounting for a combined 15 % of the aircraft .
If Boeing goes ahead with the larger 767 , the plane could hit the market in the mid-1990s .
`` Now , '' says Joseph Napolitan , a pioneer in political television , `` the idea is to attack first , last and always . ''
Avis Inc. , following rival Hertz Corp. 's lead , said it is backing out of frequent-flier programs with three airlines .
The Garden City , N.Y. , car-rental company said it wo n't renew contracts with NWA Inc. 's Northwest Airlines unit , Pan Am Corp. 's Pan American World Airways unit and Midway Airlines at the end of this year .
But it remains involved in programs with AMR Corp. 's American Airlines unit and Delta Air Lines .
Budget Rent a Car Corp. , of Chicago , and National Car Rental Systems Inc. , of Minneapolis , both said they had no plans to follow suit .
`` I can not see how this news by Hertz and Avis can not benefit Budget 's programs , '' said Bob Wilson , Budget 's vice president , marketing planning .
National also participates in the Northwest frequent-flier program along with four other airlines , including Delta and USAir Group Inc. 's USAir unit .
In Seoul , officials began visiting about 26,000 cigarette stalls to remove illegal posters and signboards advertising imported cigarettes .
South Korea has opened its market to foreign cigarettes but restricts advertising to designated places .
A marketing study indicates that Hong Kong consumers are the most materialistic in the 14 major markets where the survey was carried out .
The study by the Backer Spielvogel Bates ad agency also found that the colony 's consumers feel more pressured than those in any of the other surveyed markets , which include the U.S. and Japan .
The survey found that nearly half of Hong Kong consumers espouse what it identified as materialistic values , compared with about one-third in Japan and the U.S. .
The Thai cabinet endorsed Finance Minister Pramual Sabhavasu 's proposal to build a $ 19 million conference center for a joint meeting of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund two years from now .
The meeting , which is expected to draw 20,000 to Bangkok , was going to be held at the Central Plaza Hotel , but the government balked at the hotel 's conditions for undertaking necessary expansion .
Yasser Arafat has written to the chairman of the International Olympic Committee asking him to back a Palestinian bid to join the committee , the Palestine Liberation Organization news agency WAFA said .
An official of the Palestinian Olympic Committee said the committee first applied for membership in 1979 and renewed its application in August of this year .
Characters drink Salty Dogs , whistle `` Johnny B. Goode '' and watch Bugs Bunny reruns .
They read Mickey Spillane and talk about Groucho and Harpo .
A disaffected , hard-drinking , nearly-30 hero sets off for snow country in search of an elusive sheep with a star on its back at the behest of a sinister , erudite mobster with a Stanford degree .
He has in tow his prescient girlfriend , whose sassy retorts mark her as anything but a docile butterfly .
Along the way , he meets a solicitous Christian chauffeur who offers the hero God 's phone number ; and the Sheep Man , a sweet , roughhewn figure who wears -- what else -- a sheepskin .
The 40-year-old Mr. Murakami is a publishing sensation in Japan .
The bank projects Akzo will show per-share earnings of 24 guilders in 1990 , up from an estimated 22.5 guilders for this year and the 20.9 guilders reported for 1988 .
At James Capel & amp ; Co. in London , analyst Jackie Ashurst notes that Akzo is less exposed than many of its rivals to the most volatile chemical products .
For example , Akzo has only minor petrochemical operations , is small in plastics and does n't make fertilizers .
Thus , while Akzo profited less than many rivals from the boom of recent years in petrochemicals and plastics , it has less to fear from the current slump .
The company is exposed to bulk chemicals , however .
Although bulk-chemical prices have begun falling in the U.S. , they are generally stable in Europe , Mr. Bergsma said .
To reduce the danger of such pricing cycles , Akzo has invested heavily in specialty chemicals , which have highly specific industrial uses and tend to produce much higher profit margins than do bulk chemicals .
Akzo 's biggest move in this area was the 1987 acquisition of Stauffer Chemical Co. 's specialty chemical business for $ 625 million .
In a less glamorous field , Akzo is the world 's biggest producer of industrial salt , used as a raw material for the chemical industry as well as for such tasks as melting ice .
Akzo also makes products derived from salt , such as chlorine and caustic soda .
`` Some investors will tiptoe back in , '' says Richard Ross , a market research director for Elrick & amp ; Lavidge in Chicago .
John V. Holmes , an investment-newsletter publisher , and three venture-capital firms he organized were enjoined from violating the registration provisions of the securities laws governing investment companies .
Mr. Holmes was the subject of a page one profile in The Wall Street Journal in 1984 , after the SEC questioned him about ties between him and companies he touted in a newsletter .
In 1986 , in another consent agreement with the SEC , Mr. Holmes was enjoined from violating the stock-registration and anti-fraud provisions of the securities laws .
Without any admission or denial of guilt by Mr. Holmes , that agreement settled SEC charges that Mr. Holmes sold unregistered securities and misled investors .
Mr. Miller says that after a sharp sales slump in July and August , sales stabilized in September .
Although Wang will report a loss for the first quarter ended Sept. 30 and the full fiscal year , Mr. Miller says he expects the company will return to profitability by the fourth quarter .
`` If a salesman jeopardizes his credibility in this time of trouble , it will be a problem for the long run , '' says George Palmatier , a Minden , Nev. , sales consultant and author of `` The Marketing Edge . ''
Still , says John Sullivan , a management recruiter with Daniel Roberts Inc. of Boston , who has held senior sales positions at Polaroid and Atari : `` The customer will react to strength .
Wang 's customers are data processing managers who want to be sure that their suppliers are stable , wellrun companies that will be around to fix bugs and upgrade computers for years to come .
For buyers , `` these are career-risking decisions , '' says Jean Conlin , who supervises a network of Wang computers in the admissions department at Boston University .
During the past year , Wang has developed new products and a new strategy and hired a new president .
Wang 's overall product line is `` still not as good as other vendors , but they 've come a long way , '' says Steven Wendler , a consultant with market researcher Gartner Group , Stamford , Conn .
Under a reform arising from the 1987 crash , trading in the Merc 's stock-index futures will break for 10 minutes if the contract opens and stays five points from Friday 's close , a move equal to 40 points on the Dow Jones Industrial Average .
The aim of the interruption would be to ease the opening of the New York Stock Exchange , which would be hammered by such a volatile move on the Merc .
The Big Board also added computer capacity to handle huge surges in trading volume .
Most notably , several of the regulatory steps recommended by the Brady Task Force , which analyzed the 1987 crash , would be revived -- especially because that group 's chairman is now the Treasury secretary .
During the first halt , after the S & amp ; P index had fallen 12 points , the Big Board 's `` Sidecar '' computer program automatically was triggered .
`` You do n't want the fire but you know what to do , '' said Howard Dubnow , an independent floor broker and a Merc governor .
After reopening for about 15 minutes , the S & amp ; P index tumbled to its 30-point limit and the second freeze went into effect .
The Wall Street Journal `` American Way of Buying '' Survey consists of two separate , door-to-door nationwide polls conducted for the Journal by Peter D. Hart Research Associates and the Roper Organization .
The poll conducted by Peter D. Hart Research Associates interviewed 2,064 adults age 18 and older from June 15 to June 30 , 1989 .
The poll conducted by the Roper Organization interviewed 2,002 adults age 18 and older from July 7 to July 15 , 1989 .
Responses were weighted on the basis of age and gender to conform with U.S. Census data .
For each poll , the odds are 19 out of 20 that if pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire , the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 percentage points in either direction .
Ever since that fearful Black Monday , they 've been tirelessly wooing wary individual investors -- trying to convince them that Oct. 19 , 1987 , was a fluke and that the stock market really is a safe place for average Americans to put their hard-earned dollars .
`` Some of those folks were coming back , '' says Leslie Quick Jr. , chairman , of discount brokers Quick & amp ; Reilly Group Inc .
`` It 's going to set things back for a period , because it reinforces the concern of volatility , '' says Jeffrey B . Lane , president of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc .
`` The kinds of questions you had before have resurfaced , '' says Raymond A . `` Chip '' Mason , chairman of regional brokerage firm Legg Mason Inc. , Baltimore .
Carr-Lowrey , a maker of glass bottles for the cosmetics and toiletries industries , had sales last year of about $ 40 million .
New Canaan Investments is a closely held investment partnership with interests primarily in the packaging industry .
StatesWest Airlines said it submitted an offer to the directors of Mesa Airlines to acquire the Farmington , N.M. , carrier .
Except to characterize its offer as `` fair and generous and in the best interests of Mesa shareholders , '' StatesWest declined to discuss details of its proposal .
It also asked Mesa to keep the proposal confidential .
A Mesa official confirmed receipt of the offer and said directors would meet to consider it .
The inflation-adjusted growth rate for France 's gross domestic product for the second quarter was revised upward to 0.8 % from the previous three months from the initial estimate of 0.7 % , the National Statistics Institute said .
The crash of 1929 was followed by a substantial recovery before the great Depression and awful bear market of the 1930s began .
`` There has been a lot of emotional selling that presents a nice buying opportunity if you 've got the cash , '' says Stephen B. Timbers , chief investment officer of Chicago-based Kemper Financial Services Inc .
`` When you see a runaway train , '' says Steve Janachowski , partner in the San Francisco investment advisory firm Brouwer & amp ; Janachowski , `` you wait for the train to stop . ''
Roger Ibbotson , professor of finance at Yale University and head of the market information firm Ibbotson Associates Inc. , says , `` My real advice would be to just ride through it .
John Snyder , former president of the Los Angeles chapter of the National Association of Investors Corp. , an organization of investment clubs and individual investors , says his fellow club members did n't sell in the crash of 1987 , and see no reason to sell now .
Friday 's action `` was an old-fashioned panic , '' says Alfred Goldman , director of technical market analysis for A.G. Edwards & amp ; Sons in St. Louis .
James Craig , portfolio manager for the Denver-based Janus Fund , which has one of the industry 's better track records , started his buying during Friday 's plunge .
Even modernized , he said , the Crusaders represent an obsolete and dangerous protection for the aircraft carriers France has sent to meet such crises as the wars in Lebanon and the Persian Gulf .
Defense Minister Jean-Pierre Chevenement told a meeting of the Anglo-American Press Association that the question of modernizing the Crusaders or buying used F18s is a `` political '' decision that he will make in due time .
Best of all , they add , these growth issues , unlike their big blue-chip cousins on the New York Stock Exchange , are languishing at depressed prices .
`` The market will have to look for a new theme now and that theme will be a return to growth , '' declares Mary Farrell , a PaineWebber analyst .
Among her OTC picks are Oshkosh B'Gosh and A & amp ; W Brands .
`` You can find some good , quality companies over the counter , '' but investors should be selective , says John Palicka , chief portfolio manager at Midco Investors , a Newark , N.J. , money management company with about $ 900 million invested in growth stocks of varying sizes .
Mr. Palicka 's picks from the OTC market include Legent , Mail Boxes Etc . , and Payco American .
`` If the market refocuses on earnings , we should get better valuations of growth stocks , '' says L. Keith Mullins , a growth-stock analyst at Morgan Stanley .
The average issue on Standard & amp ; Poor 's 500-stock Index gained 35 % last year , Ms. Farrell of PaineWebber says .
Profit Systems , Valley Stream , N.Y. , is an air freight forwarding concern .
SciMed Life Systems Inc. , Minneapolis , said a federal appeals court vacated an earlier summary judgment in its favor .
A lower court in St. Paul had ruled in September 1988 that a heart catheter SciMed manufactures does n't infringe on a patent owned by Advanced Cardiovascular Systems , a unit of Eli Lilly & amp ; Co .
SciMed said the appeals court remanded the case back to the district court for further proceedings .
In national over-the-counter trading Friday , SciMed shares tumbled $ 2.75 to $ 43 .
SciMed said it `` remains committed '' both to the `` vigorous defense '' of its position that the catheter does n't infringe the Lilly unit 's patent , and to the pursuit of its own counterclaims , which allege Lilly engaged in antitrust violations and other wrongful acts .
Amgen Inc. said its second-quarter earnings increased more than tenfold to $ 3.9 million , or 22 cents a share , due to increased sales of the company 's new antianemia drug for kidney patients .
The Thousand Oaks , Calif.-based biotechnology company reported a 97 % increase in revenue to $ 42.5 million for the quarter ended Sept. 30 .
In the year-ago period , Amgen reported net income of $ 320,000 , or two cents a share , on revenue of $ 21.5 million .
Contel Corp. said third-quarter net income increased 16 % to $ 72 million , or 45 cents a share , from $ 62 million , or 39 cents a share , as a result of strong growth in telephone-access lines and long-distance minutes of use .
Meanwhile , Prudential , the nation 's largest insurer and the biggest investor in junk bonds , has seen the value of its junk bond portfolio drop to $ 6.5 billion from $ 7 billion since August because of falling junk prices .
`` We certainly do have a lack of liquidity here , and it 's something to be concerned about , '' says James A. Gregoire , a managing director .
Although the majority of junk bonds outstanding show no signs of default , the market has downgraded many junk issues as if they were in trouble , says Stuart Reese , manager of Aetna Life & amp ; Casualty Insurance Co. 's $ 17 billion investment-grade public bond portfolio .
The big insurer , unlike Prudential , owns only about $ 150 million of publicly sold junk bonds .
`` If anything , we 're going to see defaults increase because credit ratings have declined , '' says Paul Asquith , associate professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 's Sloan School of Management .
Mr. Asquith , whose study on junk bond defaults caused a furor on Wall Street when it was disclosed last April , says this year 's junk bond defaults already show a high correlation with his own findings .
One indication of a growing number of junk defaults , Mr. Asquith says , is that about half of the $ 3 billion of corporate bonds outstanding that have been lowered to a default rating by S & amp ; P this year are junk bonds sold during the market 's big issue years of 1984 through 1986 .
These bonds , now rated single-D , include junk offerings by AP Industries , Columbia Savings ( Colorado ) , First Texas Savings Association , Gilbraltar Financial Corp. , Integrated Resources Inc. , Metropolitan Broadcasting Corp. , Resorts International Inc. , Southmark Corp. and Vyquest Inc .
`` Obviously , we got a lot more smoke than fire from the people who told us the market was n't so risky , '' says Bradford Cornell , professor of finance at University of California 's Anderson Graduate School of Management in Los Angeles .
Valley National lost 1 to 17 on volume of 1.9 million shares .
Merchants Bank of New York lost 1 to 106 after reporting that its third-quarter net income fell to $ 1.62 a share from last year 's $ 1.67 a share .
Eliot Savings Bank lost 7\/8 to 1 after reporting that it had a $ 4.8 million loss in the latest third quarter mostly because of loan-loss provisions .
BanPonce jumped 4 to 47 after agreeing to be acquired by Banco Popular de Puerto Rico for $ 56.25 a share .
Banco Popular , meanwhile , dropped 1 to 21 .
Sierra Tucson , an initial public offering , made the most active list .
Sierra Tucson operates an addiction treatment center .
Among declining issues , a weak earnings outlook drove Groundwater Technology down 6 to 24 .
Medstone International plummeted 3 to 7 .
A Food and Drug Administration advisory panel has asked that Medstone perform more studies on its device to treat gallstones .
Salomon Brothers Inc. was the top program trader in September , but most of the firm 's activity involved portfolio trading strategies other than stock-index arbitrage .
Overall , Salomon reported program trading volume of 75.2 million shares .
The top stock-index arbitrage firm last month was Morgan Stanley & amp ; Co .
Of Morgan Stanley 's 66.8 million shares in program trades for the month , 53.1 million were in stock-index arbitrage trades .
Behind second-place Morgan Stanley were Kidder , Peabody & amp ; Co. , Goldman , Sachs & amp ; Co. and CS First Boston Inc. 's First Boston Corp. unit .
When Robert McDuffie was 14 , he got a chance to play in the starting lineup for his high school basketball team in Macon , Ga .
Unfortunately , his mother had tickets for a recital by Itzhak Perlman the same night , and she was adamant about his attending .
`` I threw such a fit , '' says Mr. McDuffie , who had begun violin studies at the age of six .
At 31 , Mr. McDuffie has a rich , full-bodied tone , an admirable rhythmic precision and an increasingly busy schedule .
Rivals carp at `` the principle of Pilson , '' as NBC 's Arthur Watson once put it -- `` he 's always expounding that rights are too high , then he 's going crazy . ''
But the 49-year-old Mr. Pilson is hardly a man to ignore the numbers .
A Yale law school graduate , he began his career in corporate law and then put in years at Metromedia Inc. and the William Morris talent agency .
In 1976 , he joined CBS Sports to head business affairs and , five years later , became its president .
And he is n't the only big spender : NBC will pay a record $ 401 million for the 1992 Summer Games , and ESPN , 80 % - owned by Capital Cities\/ABC , will shell out $ 400 million for four years of baseball , airing 175 regular-season games a year .
Mr. Pilson 's `` Major Events '' strategy jelled after Mr. Tisch took over .
Mr. Pilson recalls that in April 1986 , after CBS 's annual meeting in Philadelphia , he and Mr. Tisch took the 90-minute train ride back to New York , and Mr. Pilson used this extended private audience to outline his ambitions .
Mr. Tisch , a billionaire in hotels and finance , was just learning the TV business .
A one-acter by the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Marsha Norman is the first presentation in a new series called `` American Playwrights Theater , '' sponsored by General Motors .
James Earl Jones and Mario Van Peebles carry out a bitter intergenerational dialogue between two black men .
Thursdays , Nov. 2-23 , 10-11 p.m. EST , on PBS : `` Taiwan : The Other China . ''
Judy Woodruff hosts this handsome four-part series about the history , economy , culture and politics of the island home of Chinese democracy and capitalism .
Friday , Nov. 3 , 9-11 p.m. EST , on PBS : `` Our Town . ''
Along with `` Show Boat , '' `` Great Performances '' kicks off its new season with this Lincoln Center production of Thornton Wilder 's best known play , in which the role of the small-town Stage Manager is given a hip twist by performance artist Spalding Gray .
Saturday , Nov. 4 , 1:30 -6 p.m. EST , on NBC : Breeder 's Cup Day .
Sunday , Nov. 5 , 10:30 a.m.-1 :30 p.m. EST , on ABC : New York City Marathon .
Sunday , Nov. 5 , 8-9 p.m. EST , on TNT : `` Gary Cooper : American Life , American Legend . ''
He was named chief executive officer of Applied in 1986 and became chairman last November .
At Applied , Mr. Sim set growth as his first objective .
He took the company public in an offering that netted Applied about $ 12.6 million , which helped launch the company 's acquisition program .
Intel Corp. reported a 50 % drop in third-quarter net income , partly because of a one-time charge for discontinued operations .
The lower net included a charge of $ 35 million , equal to 12 cents a share on an after-tax basis , for the cost of abandoning a computer-systems joint venture with Siemens AG of West Germany .
Intel 's stock rose in early over-the-counter trading Friday , as investors appeared relieved that the company 's income from continuing operations was only slightly below the second quarter 's earnings of $ 99.3 million , or 53 cents a share , and that sales actually exceeded the $ 747.3 million for the second period .
But Intel later succumbed to the stock market 's plunge , closing at $ 31.75 , down $ 2.125 .
In August , Intel warned that third-quarter earnings might be `` flat to down '' from the previous period 's because of slowing sales growth of its 80386 microprocessor , start-up costs associated with a line of computers and costs of preparing for mass shipments of the company 's new 80486 chip in the current quarter .
He surveys the prospective investors gathered in the board room of the Philippine government 's Asset Privatization Trust for the sale of a 36 % interest in the country 's largest paper mill .
Mr. Bince , the trust 's associate executive trustee , declares the bidding a failure .
In October 1987 , President Corazon Aquino vowed that her government would `` get out of business '' by selling all or part of the state 's holdings in the many companies taken over by the government during the 20-year rule of Ferdinand Marcos .
Two years later , Mrs. Aquino 's promise remains largely unfulfilled .
In addition , the government is scheduled to unveil plans for privatizing Philippine Airlines , the national carrier , an effort that lawyer and business columnist Rodolfo Romero calls `` the bellwether of privatization . ''
The Asset Privatization Trust , the agency chiefly responsible for selling government-held properties , has recorded sales of more than $ 500 million since it began functioning in December 1986 .
Ramon Garcia , the Asset Trust 's executive trustee , admits to what he calls `` temporary setbacks . ''
October 's troubles began when the trust failed to sell a state-owned commercial bank , Associated Bank , for the minimum price of 671 million pesos ( $ 31 million ) .
`` It 's an explosive cocktail '' thrown at the world , says Kenneth Courtis , senior economist at the Tokyo unit of Deutsche Bank Group .
The Ministry of International Trade and Industry is so concerned that it recently took the unusual step of urging Japanese auto companies to exercise caution in capital spending .
MITI officials hope to avoid yet-another source of trade friction with the U.S. even though export restraints currently limit Japanese car exports to the U.S. .
According to a survey of some 2,400 large companies by the Japan Development Bank , expanded capacity is the goal of just 51.8 % of the outlays ; for manufacturers alone , the figure is 32 % .
With Japan running enormous trade surpluses against much of the world , they think that Japan should meet the increased domestic demand by importing more .
`` If there 's a further drive to export , '' says Nobuyuki Arai , an economist at the Japan Development Bank , `` that 'll be a problem . ''
Japanese auto makers , for example , are increasing their production capacity in the U.S. ; the additional production should , in part , replace imported vehicles with locally manufactured ones .
But although Japanese companies increased their U.S. auto output by 42 % from January to September compared with the year-earlier period , their exports to the U.S. will drop only 9 % this year , Nikko Research Center estimates .
Many are pouring money into developing high-quality products to target affluent consumers and , to some extent , to avoid direct combat with cheaper cars from South Korea and Taiwan .
The New York Stock Exchange said a seat was sold for $ 500,000 , unchanged from the sale Thursday .
Japan 's Finance Ministry strongly denied playing any role in the New York stock-price free fall .
Makoto Utsumi , vice minister for international affairs , said the ministry did n't in any way suggest to Japanese banks that they stay out of the UAL Corp. leveraged buy-out .
The comments were the ministry 's first detailed public statement on the subject , and reflect the ministry 's concern that foreigners will think Japan is using its tremendous financial power to control events in foreign markets .
A number of accounts of the events leading to the 190 point drop in New York stock prices on Oct. 13 accused the ministry of pulling the plug on the UAL deal for one reason or another .
For instance , he says , International Business Machines and Unisys might look cheap , but investors might continue to do better with stocks like Walt Disney , Procter & amp ; Gamble and Coca-Cola , strong performers in recent years .
Money manager Robert Ross , head of Duncan Ross Associates Ltd. in Vancouver , British Columbia , says stocks would have to fall 15 % to 20 % before they are competitive with less risky investment alternatives .
Fredric Russell , a money manager in Tulsa , Okla. , says Friday 's cave-in `` is going to have more of a permanent impact on the psyche of many investors than Wall Street would want to admit . ''
`` I still think we will have a 3000 Dow , whether it 's six months or 12 months from now I do n't know , '' says David Dreman , managing partner of Dreman Value Management in New York .
Yesterday , Goldman Sachs , Merrill Lynch and Dean Witter all increased the proportion of assets they recommend investors commit to stocks .
Dean Witter now recommends 85 % , Goldman 65 % and Merrill Lynch 50 % .
`` It was a healthy cleansing , '' says Michael Holland , who runs Salomon Brothers Asset Management in New York .
Friday 's big fall was `` just a blunder by the stock market , '' says John Connolly , chief strategist for Dean Witter .
Of his successes in Washington , Mr. Bennett stressed that existing federal prisons have taken custody of 375 local inmates .
He also noted that the federal Drug Enforcement Administration has established a federal-local task force responsible since April for 106 arrests and more than $ 2 million in seizures of drug dealers ' assets .
The Defense Department has lent the Washington U.S. attorney 10 prosecutors , and the Federal Bureau of Investigation has provided crime laboratory facilities and training , he added .
CRI Inc. said it reduced the estimated cash distribution for its Capital Housing and Mortgage Partners Inc. trust to between 71 cents and 74 cents a share , from between 75 cents and 80 cents , for the year ending June 9 , 1990 .
The change in expected cash distributions from the Champs real estate investment trust stems from a revised estimate of administrative costs , said Jay R. Cohen , Champs executive vice president .
CRI , which sponsors Champs , is a world-wide real estate investment firm .
H & amp ; R BLOCK Inc. had net income of $ 100.2 million , or $ 1.90 a share , in the fiscal year ended April 30 .
A former Sperry Corp. marketing executive , admitting his role in the Pentagon procurement scandal , pleaded guilty to bribery and conspiracy charges for helping funnel $ 400,000 to a midlevel Navy acquisition official during the early 1980s .
Frank Lavelle , who at the time was the marketing director for Sperry in Clearwater , Fla. , admitted participating in a scheme to bribe Garland Tomlin , the Navy official .
The Chicago Merc banned dual trading in its Standard & amp ; Poor 's 500-stock index futures pit in 1987 .
A Merc spokesman said the plan has n't made much difference in liquidity in the pit .
But at a meeting last week , Tom Donovan , the Board of Trade 's president , told commodity lawyers : `` Dual trading is definitely worth saving .
General Dynamics Services Co. , a unit of General Dynamics Corp. , won a $ 48.2 million Army contract to establish maintenance facilities for tracked vehicles in Pakistan .
Grumman Corp. was given a $ 15 million Navy contract for aircraft-electronics improvements .
Hughes Aircraft Co. , a unit of General Motors Corp. , got a $ 10.3 million Air Force contract for airborne-radar equipment .
Yesterday 's 88-point recovery from Friday 's megadrop in the Dow Jones industrials had many brokerage houses proclaiming that stocks are a good bargain again .
`` The stock market ai n't going to do much of anything '' for a while , says John Neff of Wellington Management , who runs the $ 8.3 billion Windsor Fund .
Mr. Neff says the stock market has lost some powerful driving forces , namely earnings growth and the `` LBO sweepstakes '' -- buy-out fever that induced investors to bid up whole groups of stocks , such as media and airlines .
As at the Zurich bank , the minimum investment for individuals will be high : about a million German marks ( $ 538,000 ) , three times what many other West German investment banks require .
Swedish rolling-steel and ball-bearing group AB SKF said its pretax profit rose 78 % to 1.78 billion kronor ( $ 278 million ) in the first nine months from one billion kronor ( $ 156 million ) in the corresponding period a year earlier .
SKF said sales increased 17 % to 18.46 billion kronor from 15.72 billion .
SKF said demand for the group 's main product , rolling bearings , remained favorable in Europe , which accounts for slightly more than two-thirds of group sales .
The company said the situation in the U.S. is still uncertain as reduced production in the country 's automotive industry has resulted in weakened demand for rolling bearings .
Budget is set at $ 1.5 million .
The new beer , introduced this week at a liquor industry convention , is imported from Switzerland 's Cardinal brewery .
Heidelberg 's first ads for the brand , which Sibra says will compete with imported light beer leader Amstel Light , feature the line `` The best tasting light beer you 've ever seen .
Diamond-Star Motors Corp. , a joint venture of Chrysler Corp. and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. said it will begin shipping Mitsubishi Eclipse cars to Japan next week , emulating other Japanese auto ventures shipping U.S.-built vehicles back to Japan .
Diamond-Star said it will export about 1,500 Eclipse cars to Japan by year 's end .
Honda Motor Co. , the first Japanese auto maker to ship cars to Japan from the U.S. , is now exporting more than 5,000 Accord Coupes a year from its Marysville , Ohio , factory .
Randy Delchamps was named chairman and chief executive officer of this grocery chain .
Mr. Delchamps , 46 years old , succeeds A.F . Delchamps Jr. , who died in a plane crash on Sunday at the age of 58 .
Randy Delchamps retains his position as president .
William Bennett , the White House drug-policy director , accused local officials in the Washington area of blocking construction of prison facilities to house convicted drug dealers .
Baron Elie de Rothschild , the family 's elder spokesman , explains that by the end of the 19th century , Berlin had replaced Frankfurt as Germany 's financial center .
Although its palatial residence was destroyed by bombs during World War II , the Rothschilds ' place in Frankfurt 's history is still recalled by the city park and a street bearing the Rothschild name .
The family was in Allied countries during both World War I and the long period of economic strife of the 1920s .
During the Third Reich , the Rothschilds were a target of Nazi propaganda against Jewish financiers .
The persecution pursued the Rothschilds across Europe as the Nazis grabbed countries , confiscating the family 's property in the process .
American journalist William L. Shirer , in his book `` The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich , '' wrote of how in Vienna he had witnessed `` squads of { Nazi } SS men carting off silver , tapestries , paintings and other loot from the Rothschild palace . ''
In the immediate postwar years , the Rothschilds concentrated on rebuilding their other European operations , delaying their return to Frankfurt .
`` For a member of the Rothschild family , the return to Frankfurt is a very meaningful event , although it might not mean as much to German banking as it means to us , '' says Baron David de Rothschild , Elie 's younger cousin and a partner in Rothschild & amp ; Cie . Banque in Paris .
But Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell ( D. , Maine ) , a vigorous opponent of the capital-gains tax cut , called the group to meet with him Wednesday night and again yesterday .
Sen. Mitchell urged them to desist .
The decision is a setback for President Bush , who needs the support of Democrats to pass the tax cut through the Democratic-controlled Senate .
Still , Sen. Bob Packwood ( R. , Ore. ) , the lead sponsor of the Republican capital-gains amendment , predicted that the tax cut would be enacted this year .
But Sen. Mitchell , buoyed by his victory among fellow Democrats , strongly disagreed .
Mr. Mitchell has been predicting that the president 's initiative would fail this year .
Mr. Mitchell 's first victory came last week , when the Senate passed a deficit-reduction bill that did n't contain a capital-gains provision .
That vote made it unlikely that a capital-gains tax cut would be included in the final bill , now being drafted by House and Senate negotiators .
The House version of the bill does include the tax cut .
To help lay the groundwork for that fight , President Bush plans early next week to meet at the White House with some 20 Democratic senators who favor cutting the capital-gains tax or are undecided on the issue .
Grace Energy just two weeks ago hauled a rig here 500 miles from Caspar , Wyo . , to drill the Bilbrey well , a 15,000-foot , $ 1-million-plus natural gas well .
For Zel Herring , owner and a cook at the Sandhills Luncheon Cafe , a tin building in midtown , all this has made for a very good year .
After 11:30 a.m. or so `` we have them standing and waiting , '' she says , as she whips out orders for hamburgers and the daily special ( grilled roast beef , cheese and jalapeno pepper sandwich on whole wheat , potato salad , baked beans and pudding , plus coffee or iced tea .
Mike Huber , a roustabout , is even making it in his new career as an entrepreneur .
He started Arrow Roustabouts Inc. a year ago with a loan from a friend , since repaid , and now employs 15 .
Joe Frank Sanderson Jr. was elected president and chief executive officer of this poultry producer .
Joe Frank Sanderson , who is currently chairman , chief executive and treasurer , will remain chairman .
The current president and chief operating officer , J. Odell Johnson , was elected to the new position of vice chairman of the board .
Carl E. Pissocra , president and chief executive officer of Bank One , Dover , has been named regional president , a new post at the bank-holding company .
When WCRS created Della Femina McNamee out of the merger of three smaller agency units in 1988 , it said it did so in order to attract larger clients , especially packaged-goods companies .
Since then , Della Femina won Pan Am as an international client and also does work for a few packaged-goods clients , including Dow Chemical Co. 's Saran Wrap .
But major packaged-goods players of the world -- such as Procter & amp ; Gamble , Colgate-Palmolive and Unilever -- have steadfastly eluded the agency .
What 's more , both Eurocom and brothers Francis and Gilbert Gross , who founded Carat , will acquire 14.99 % stakes in WCRS Group , creating a powerful link between Eurocom and Carat .
Carat will receive its WCRS stake as part of payment for the 50 % Carat stake that WCRS is buying , while Eurocom said it expects to pay about # 32 million for its WCRS stake .
Mr. Della Femina says he plans to remain heavily involved in the creative product at the world-wide agency , serving as a sort of `` creative conscience . ''
Louise McNamee , Della Femina 's president , will continue running the U.S. agency day-to-day .
When , however , Claudio 's sister , Isabella , a novitiate in a convent , goes to Angelo to plead her brother 's case , the obdurate ruler immediately falls in love with her and , in a supreme act of hypocrisy , demands that Isabella yield up her virtue to him in exchange for her brother 's life .
For the Alley production , scene designer Peter David Gould has arranged a stark but extremely effective set featuring a rectangular platform of white-washed boards that extends into the audience .
In the play 's major scenes Mr. Boyd demonstrates that he has a firm grasp of the Shakespearean dynamic .
When Isabella ( Ellen Lauren ) confronts her brother Claudio ( Matt Loney ) in his cell , explaining the price she has been asked to secure his freedom ; when Isabella and the disguised Duke ( Philip Kerr ) conspire to trick Angelo ; and when Mariana ( Annalee Jefferies ) , a woman wronged by Angelo , confronts him with his past misdeeds , the performers bring the dramatic high points to life with intense energy and intelligence .
When Claudio is arrested , he is brought on stage nude except for the manacles on his wrists and ankles .
When the opportunist Lucio ( Jack Stehlin ) visits the convent to inform Isabella of her brother 's fate , Lucio not only slaps the mother superior on her rear , but brings along a voluptuous companion ( Jill Powell ) , not in Shakespeare 's script , to undulate lasciviously .
Meanwhile , the pimp Pompey ( Glen Allen Pruett ) , dressed in black leather and a prominent codpiece , indulges in enough obscene gestures and pelvic thrusts to launch a space probe .
Short interest in First Executive , an insurance issue , rose 55 % to 3.8 million .
Intel 's short interest jumped 42 % , while Campeau 's increased 62 % .
Intel makes semiconductors and Campeau operates department-store chains and is strained for cash .
Short interest in the American depositary receipts of Jaguar , the target of both Ford Motor and General Motors , more than doubled .
Nasdaq stocks that showed a drop in short interest included Adobe Systems , Class A shares of Tele-Communications and takeover targets Lyphomed and Jerrico .
The NASD , which operates the Nasdaq computer system on which 5,200 OTC issues trade , compiles short interest data in two categories : the approximately two-thirds , and generally biggest , Nasdaq stocks that trade on the National Market System ; and the one-third , and generally smaller , Nasdaq stocks that are n't a part of the system .
Short interest in 1,327 non-NMS securities totaled 40.3 million shares , compared with almost 38 million shares in 1,310 issues in September .
Recently , Gen-Probe received a broad U.S. patent for a technology that helps detect , identify and quantify non-viral organisms through the targeting of a form of genetic material called ribosomal RNA .
The tender offer for Gen-Probe 's shares is expected to begin next Monday , the company said .
A half-dozen Soviet space officials , in Tokyo in July for an exhibit , stopped by to see their counterparts at the National Space Development Agency of Japan .
The visitors then listed technologies up for sale , including launch services and propulsion hardware . `` We were just surprised , '' says Tad Inada , NASDA 's director for international affairs .
That Moscow , with its dilapidated economic machine , would try to sell high technology to Japan , one of the world 's high-tech leaders , sounds like a coals-to-Newcastle notion . But `` the Soviet Union has areas where it is n't behind Japan , '' says Mikhail Shapovalov of the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations .
Michael A. Gaskin , 55 years old , was named president and chief executive officer of this manufacturer of industrial robots , succeeding Walter K. Weisel .
Mr. Weisel , 49 , resigned as president and chief executive and will work on special projects , said John J. Wallace , chairman .
Mr. Gaskin formerly was president and chief executive of Taylor & amp ; Gaskin Inc. and was a director of Prab Robots since 1985 .
This is written to correct a misquotation in your Oct. 3 article `` Deaths From Advanced Colon Cancer Can Be Reduced by Using Two Drugs . ''
With this treatment we have reduced deaths in high-risk colon cancer by one-third -- but this leaves the two-thirds who are dying of cancer .
My statement , read verbatim from a printed text available to all reporters attending the National Cancer Institute news conference , was the following : `` New clinical trials are already in operation seeking to improve these results .
We have very exciting prospects for far more impressive advances in the treatment of colon cancer during the years immediately ahead .
After all , 40,000 newcomers a year are settling in the Las Vegas Valley .
But Nevada state labor economists think a shortage is probable .
Nobody yet seems to have calculated the total number of slot machines , crap tables or roulette wheels Las Vegas will add to the enormous store that Lady Luck already guards here , much less the ultimate impact of the growth on schools and municipal services .
`` Traffic is certainly a concern , as is pollution , water and an adequate labor market , '' says Frank Sain , executive director of the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Bureau .
City fathers have managed to push through projects that are crucial for tourist growth , such as the expansion of McCarran International Airport to accommodate the 44 % of Las Vegas tourists who fly here .
Caesars World Inc. plans to defend its august reputation by sinking $ 190 million into its opulent Caesars Palace , next door to the new Mirage , and adding a $ 100 million shopping area reminiscent of Rodeo Drive .
The Palace , with its marble fountains and toga parties for high rollers , is already well-known for its Caesarean theme .
The Flamingo Hilton , Imperial Palace , Frontier and others are pouring millions of dollars into facelifts , new room towers and casino floor space just to keep up .
Besides , Daikin 's major competitors , Hitachi Ltd. and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. , `` are all adding production lines , '' a Daikin spokesman says .
Nissan aims to expand its 25 % share of the market to 30 % by spending $ 141 million on a plant in southern Japan that could make as many as 240,000 cars a year .
Meanwhile , Toyota Motor Corp. 's $ 247 million buildup is increasing its annual capacity by 180,000 cars , and Honda is spending $ 317 million on expansion .
Mazda Motor Corp. is still considering its options , but it boldly aims to double its annual domestic sales to 800,000 cars in the next four years .
Although imports account for less than 1 % of beer sales in Japan , Asahi Breweries Ltd. , which has been gaining share with its popular dry beer , plans to fend off Japanese competitors by pouring $ 1.06 billion into facilities to brew 50 % more beer .
But new-product development will make Japanese companies stronger , and big investments in `` domestic '' industries such as beer will make it even tougher for foreign competitors to crack the Japanese market .
Toshiba Corp. , for example , is spending $ 986 million on two new plants to build four-megabit dynamic random access memories , the next generation of computer chips .
The product is n't widely used yet , but Toshiba , which has already beaten everyone else in producing the current-generation one-megabit DRAMs , believes that its early investment will heighten its chances of beating its competitors again .
Meanwhile , Toshiba 's Japanese rivals , Hitachi , Fujitsu Ltd. and NEC Corp. , are n't sitting still .
FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION ( Fannie Mae ) : Posted yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30 days ( priced at par ) .9.82 % , standard conventional fixed rate-mortgages ; 8.70 % , 6\/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages .
Maxus Energy Corp. , Dallas , said it discovered a new oil field northeast of its previously discovered Intan Field in the southeast Sumatra area of Indonesia .
Maxus said it did n't run a production test on the three discovery wells it drilled in the field , which is about 1.6 miles from the Intan Field , because the wells are similar to others drilled at its Intan and Widuri fields .
The Intan Field has estimated reserves of 50 million barrels and the Widuri Field has estimated reserves of 225 million barrels .
Maxus , an independent oil and gas concern , is the operator and owns a 56 % interest in the new field , called Northeast Intan .
Thomas H. Johnson , president of the Coatedboard division of Mead Corp. , was named president of Manville Forest Products Corp. , a Manville unit , and senior vice president of Manville Corp .
Mr. Johnson succeeds Harry W. Sherman , who resigned to pursue other interests , in both positions .
Manville is a building and forest products concern .
Reuben Mark , chairman of Colgate-Palmolive Co. , said he is `` comfortable '' with analysts ' estimates that third-quarter earnings rose to between 95 cents and $ 1.05 a share .
Analysts estimate Colgate 's world-wide third-quarter sales rose about 8 % to $ 1.29 billion .
Mr. Mark attributed the earnings growth to strong sales in Latin America , Asia and Europe .
Results were also bolstered by `` a very meaningful '' increase in operating profit by Colgate 's U.S. business , Mr. Mark said .
Operating profit at Colgate 's U.S. household products and personal-care businesses jumped 25 % in the quarter , Mr. Mark added .
Colgate 's household products business , which includes such brands as Fab laundry detergent and Ajax cleanser , has been a weak performer .
For starters , racehorse buyers have to remember the basic problem of such ventures : These beasts do n't come with warranties .
Katherine Voss , a veteran trainer at the Laurel , Md . , track , offers neophytes a sobering tour of a horse barn , noting that only three of about a dozen horses have won sizable purses .
One brown two-year-old filly was wheezing from a cold , while another had splints on its legs , keeping both animals from the racetrack .
`` The industry is based on individual honesty , '' says Cap Hershey , a Lexington horse farmer and one of the investors who bought Spendthrift .
At the low end , investors can spend $ 15,000 or more to own a racehorse in partnership with others .
At a yearling sale , a buyer can go solo and get a horse for a few thousand dollars .
But that means paying the horse 's maintenance ; on average , it costs $ 25,000 a year to raise a horse .
Rally 's , a fast-food chain based in Louisville , Ky. , is contending that Mr. Sugarman and two other company directors failed to disclose to the Securities and Exchange Commission that they intended to acquire a big Rally stake .
Mr. Sugarman has in turn contended that the other major shareholder group -- whose interests are represented by three other directors connected to trusts in the name of the children of the company 's founder , James Patterson -- has ties to a competing fast food chain , Wendy 's International Inc .
Each group controls more than 40 % of Rally 's stock .
Vitro S.A. of Monterrey , Mexico , said its THR Corp. subsidiary has entered into definitive loan agreements in connection with Vitro 's $ 21.25-a-share tender offer for Anchor Glass Container Corp .
The agreements are with Security Pacific National Bank and an affiliate of Donaldson , Lufkin & amp ; Jenrette Securities Corp .
Proceeds of the loan agreement , together with funds from Vitro , will permit the purchase of all shares outstanding of Anchor and the payment of all related costs and expenses .
Vitro said the definitive agreements require that Anchor obtain a waiver from its bank lenders of existing covenant defaults under its bank facilities .
Since Anchor is still seeking this waiver , Vitro said the tender offer is being extended until 5 p.m. EST tomorrow .
As the country 's new leader , Egon Krenz , prepared to travel to Moscow today for talks with Soviet leader Gorbachev , hundreds of thousands of East Germans massed in the streets of Leipzig , Halle and Schwerin to call for internal freedoms and the legalization of the New Forum opposition group .
Compaq Computer Corp. said that its net income rose 51 % in the third quarter , bolstered by unusual gains from its investment in a disk-drive maker and reflecting continued growth in its European operations .
The latest quarter 's results , however , included a pretax gain of $ 13.7 million , or 20 cents a share , in the carrying value of the company 's investment in Conner Peripherals Inc. and a $ 7.6 million gain , or 11 cents a share , from the sale of one million Conner shares .
Net for the year-earlier nine months also included a gain of $ 9.7 million , or 15 cents a share , in the carrying value of the Conner investment .
Michael Swavely , president of Compaq 's North America division , attributed the company 's third-quarter performance to continued increases in international sales , which accounted for 43 % of the company 's sales , a 74 % increase from a year earlier .
During the third quarter , Compaq purchased a former Wang Laboratories manufacturing facility in Stirling , Scotland , which will be used for international service and repair operations .
Mr. Swavely said the new space will allow Compaq to increase the manufacturing capacity of its plant in Erskine , Scotland .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , Compaq shares fell $ 1.625 to $ 108.625 .
Chandler Insurance Co. said it expects to report third-quarter net income jumped 97 % to $ 2.8 million , or 51 cents a share .
In an interview , W. Brent LeGere , chairman and chief executive officer , said he expects revenue in the latest quarter to total about $ 28 million .
With only small help from the government , these start-up concerns are trying to compete with the Goliaths of the Japanese consumer electronics industry , which enjoy considerable backing from the Japanese government .
Photonics Technology Inc. of Northwood , Ohio , aims to use a new form of plasma technology to put movie-quality images on a TV display that is 40 inches in diameter but only a few inches thick .
Planar Systems Inc. of Beaverton , Ore. , the largest of these firms , with $ 20 million in annual revenue , has similar plans .
Two other firms , Ovonic Imaging Systems Inc. of Troy , Mich. , and Magnascreen Corp. of Pittsburgh are developing a variation of the flat-panel screens called active-matrix liquid crystal displays .
But except for Zenith Electronics Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. , which is collaborating with Toshiba on computer displays , they are poorly positioned to exploit advances in large panels .
General Electric Co. recently sold off its interests in liquid-crystal displays to Thompson-CSF of France .
`` No one yet has shown the ability to manufacture these panels '' at commercial costs , says Zvi Yaniv , the president of Ovonic Imaging .
The Knight Foundation , of Akron , Ohio , has established a national commission to look into college-sports reform , and the NCAA Presidents Commission earlier this month recommended cutting spring football practice in half , moving the start of basketball practice back by a month and reducing maximum schedules in that sport to 25 games from 28 .
The Merc alleged that , among other things , from April 1987 through October 1988 Capcom Futures failed to document trades between Capcom Futures and people or entities directly or indirectly controlled by Capcom Futures shareholders .
whose Della Femina McNamee WCRS agency created liar Joe Isuzu , among others -- announced a massive restructuring that largely removes it from the advertising business and includes selling the majority of its advertising unit to Paris-based Eurocom .
The complex restructuring , which was long expected , transforms London-based WCRS from primarily a creator of advertising into one of Europe 's largest buyers of advertising time and space .
WCRS 's restructuring reflects the growing importance of media buying in Europe , where the only way to get a good price on advertising time and space is to buy it in bulk .
For Eurocom , meanwhile , the move gives it a strong U.S. foothold in Della Femina , and more than quadruples the size of its ad agency business world-wide .
According to terms , WCRS will pay 2.02 billion French francs ( $ 318.6 million ) for the 50 % it does n't already own of Carat Holding S.A. , one of Europe 's largest media buyers .
Meanwhile , Eurocom , which had held 20 % of WCRS 's ad unit , will pay # 43.5 million ( $ 68.5 million ) to raise its stake to 60 % .
That price also covers Eurocom raising to 60 % its 51 % stake in Europe 's Belier Group , a joint venture ad agency network it owns with WCRS .
Tuesday 's earthquake brought the San Francisco ad scene to a screeching halt yesterday , with only a few staffers showing up at their offices , mainly to survey the damage or to wring their hands about imminent new-business presentations .
While no agencies reported injuries to employees , the quake damaged the offices of J. Walter Thompson , Chiat\/Day\/Mojo and DDB Needham , among others , spokesmen for those agencies said .
Plaster fell and windows were broken at Chiat\/Day\/Mojo , a spokesman for that agency said .
Late yesterday afternoon , DDB Needham executives were scrambling to figure out what to do about a new business presentation that had been scheduled for today , a spokesman said .
DDB Needham 's office building may have sustained structural damage , the spokesman added .
Chesebrough-Pond 's Inc. , Greenwich , Conn. , awarded its Faberge hair care accounts to J. Walter Thompson , New York .
Thompson , a unit of WPP Group , will handle Faberge Organic shampoo and conditioner and Aqua Net hairspray .
The accounts , which billed about $ 7 million last year , according to Leading National Advertisers , were previously handled at Bozell , New York .
Peter Anthony , who runs an employment agency in New York , decries program trading as `` limiting the game to a few , '' but he also is n't sure it should be more strictly regulated .
Glenn Britta , a 25-year-old New York financial analyst who plays options for his personal account , says he is `` factoring '' the market 's volatility `` into investment decisions . ''
Also in New York , Israel Silverman , an insurance-company lawyer , comments that program trading `` increases volatility , but I do n't think it should be banned .
Jim Enzor of Atlanta defends program trading because he believes that it can bring the market back up after a plunge .
Scott Taccetta , a Chicago accountant , is going into money-market funds .
Mr. Taccetta says he had just recouped the $ 5,000 he lost in the 1987 crash when he lost more money last Oct. 13 .
In October , before the market dropped , Mrs. Arighi of Arnold , Calif. , moved to sell the `` speculative stocks '' in her family trust `` so we will be able to withstand all this flim-flammery '' caused by program trading .
Lucille Gorman , an 84-year-old Chicago housewife , has become amazingly immune to stock-market jolts .
Mrs. Gorman took advantage of low prices after the 1987 crash to buy stocks and has hunted for other bargains since the Oct. 13 plunge .
William C. Walbrecher Jr. , an executive at San Francisco-based 1st Nationwide Bank , was named president and chief executive officer of Citadel Holding Corp. and its principal operating unit , Fidelity Federal Bank .
`` Funny thing , '' says the kicker , `` both these candidates are named Rudolph Giuliani . ''
Mr. Dinkins did fail to file his income taxes for four years , but he insists he voluntarily admitted the `` oversight '' when he was being considered for a city job .
The city 's Campaign Finance Board has refused to pay Mr. Dinkins $ 95,142 in matching funds because his campaign records are incomplete .
But , say Mr. Dinkins 's managers , he did have an office and his organization did have members .
Mr. Giuliani 's campaign chairman , Peter Powers , says the Dinkins ad is `` deceptive . ''
Democratic Lt. Gov . Douglas Wilder opened his gubernatorial battle with Republican Marshall Coleman with an abortion commercial produced by Frank Greer that analysts of every political persuasion agree was a tour de force .
At the investment firm of Smith Barney , Harris Upham & amp ; Co. , the commodity-chemical segment is seen pulling down overall profit for 20 companies representative of the whole industry by 8 % to 10 % .
`` You will find the commodities off more than the others and the diversified companies about even or slightly better , '' says James Wilbur , a Smith Barney analyst .
First Boston Corp. projects that 10 of the 15 companies it follows will report lower profit .
Moreover , the Wilmington , Del . , company is helped when prices weaken on the commodity chemicals it buys for its own production needs , such as ethylene .
The estimates for Du Pont range from $ 2.25 to $ 2.45 a share .
Du Pont declined to comment .
Until Mr. Luzon took the helm last November , Banco Exterior was run by politicians who lacked either the skills or the will to introduce innovative changes .
But Mr. Luzon has moved swiftly to streamline bureaucracy , cut costs , increase capital and build up new areas of business .
In Mr. Luzon 's first year , the bank eliminated 800 jobs .
The bank employs 8,000 people in Spain and 2,000 abroad .
To strengthen its capital base , Banco Exterior this year issued $ 105 million in subordinated debt , launched two rights issues and sold stock held in its treasury to small investors .
Banco Exterior was one of the last banks to create a brokerage house before the four Spanish stock exchanges underwent sweeping changes in July .
While Shearson does n't do computer-guided program trading for its own account , the firm does execute orders for clients involved in the buying and selling of shares tied to movements in certain stock indexes , Mr. DaPuzzo acknowledged .
Groused Robert Antolini , head of over-the-counter trading at Donaldson , Lufkin & amp ; Jenrette : `` It 's making it tough for traders to make money . ''
Kinder-Care Learning Centers added 1\/4 to 4 on 461,200 shares .
Lodestar Group said it will make a $ 6-a-share offer for the remaining Kinder-Care Learning Center common stock if it acquires a majority of the company 's shares in a pending rights offering by Kinder-Care Learning Center 's parent , Kinder-Care Inc .
Shares of KinderCare Inc. closed at 3 , also up 1\/4 , on volume of 700,000 .
Ohio Casualty dropped 2 to 49 .
North Atlantic Industries jumped 1 to 5 .
The electronics-instruments maker is to be acquired by Asset Management Associates for $ 7.25 a share .
Mr. Trudeau 's attorney , Norman K. Samnick , said the harassment consists mainly of the guild 's year-long threats of disciplinary action .
Mr. Samnick said a guild disciplinary hearing is scheduled next Monday in New York .
A federal appeals court upheld a lower court ruling that the U.S. can bar the use of federal funds for family-planning programs that include abortion-related services .
A Department of Health and Human Services rule adopted in 1988 prohibits the use of so-called Title X funds for programs that assist a woman in obtaining an abortion , such as abortion counseling and referrals .
Title X funds are the single largest source of federal funding for family-planning services , according to the opinion by the Second U.S . Circuit Court of Appeals in New York .
Dallas District Judge Jack Hampton had sparked calls for a judicial inquiry with his remarks to the press last December , two weeks after sentencing an 18-year-old defendant to 30 years in state prison for killing two homosexual men in a city park .
The claims , which were filed with the State Board of Control but will probably end up in court , are the first arising out of the collapse of the so-called Cypress structure viaduct .
On July 18 , 1974 , International Nickle of Canada -- advised by Morgan -- offered $ 28 a share , equal to $ 157 million , for ESB , a Philadelphia battery maker .
ESB said it was given only a three-hour advance warning on a `` take it or leave it '' basis from Inco , as the Toronto company is called .
`` ESB is aware that a hostile tender offer is being made by a foreign company for all of ESB 's shares , '' said F.J . Port , ESB 's president .
Joseph Flom , of Skadden , Arps , Slote , Meagher & amp ; Flom , which became a leading legal firm in merger cases , said the case `` made takeovers respectable . ''
ESB spurned Inco and within five days ESB had a `` white knight '' as United Aircraft -- headed by Harry Gray , a shrewdly friendly acquirer of companies -- offered $ 34 a share .
Gray was advised by Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch .
The administration said improvements in Costa Rica 's economic condition warrant the cut in aid , which the country uses mainly to make payments on its $ 4.5 billion foreign debt .
`` We are crossing the river and we need a little more help to get to the other side , '' said Rodrigo Sotela , an economic affairs specialist at the Costa Rican Embassy in Washington .
However , peace efforts by Costa Rican President Oscar Arias have n't always helped the country 's cause in Washington .
Mr. Arias 's long-time refusal to support the U.S. 's campaign against leftist Nicaragua earned him the ire of the Reagan White House .
`` I think Bush 's going there is a helpful sign , '' said Sen. Terry Sanford ( D. , N.C . ) a member of the Foreign Relations Committee who pushed to provide Costa Rica about the same amount of aid as it received last year .
That 's certainly good news for such companies as Compaq Computer Corp. , Houston , which has only a four-day supply of microprocessors from the Valley on hand because of a just-in-time manufacturing approach that limits the buildup of inventory .
Digital Equipment has set up disaster-recovery response centers in Dallas , Atlanta and Colorado Springs , Colo .
These units were handling calls both from people in the San Francisco area and from computers themselves , which are set to dial Digital automatically when trouble arises .
Digital also said it has dispatched teams of technicians to California .
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory , where the Energy Department tests and conducts research on nuclear weapons , had only `` superficial damage , '' a spokesman said .
At Lockheed Corp. 's missiles and space systems group in Sunnyvale , about 40 miles south of San Francisco , workers were asked to head to work yesterday after it was realized that `` there were no show-stoppers '' in the 150-plus buildings on its one-square-mile campus .
One of Lockheed 's most lucrative sectors -- accounting for more than half the aerospace company 's $ 10.59 billion in sales in 1988 -- the missiles and space group is the prime Pentagon contractor on the Trident II ballistic missile .
It also generates pieces of the missile shield called the Strategic Defense Initiative .
Mr. Coleman said this week that he would devote the remainder of the political season to positive campaigning , but the truce lasted only hours .
By Tuesday night , television stations were carrying new ads featuring Mr. Coleman himself raising questions about Mr. Wilder 's sensitivity to rape victims .
The attacks began when Democratic Rep. James Florio aired an ad featuring a drawing of Pinocchio and a photograph of Mr. Florio 's rival , Republican Rep. Jim Courter .
And then this commercial , produced by Bob Squier , gets down to its own mean and dirty business .
The only fraud involved , cry Mr. Courter 's partisans , is the Florio commercial itself , and so the Courter campaign has responded with its own Pinocchio commercial , produced by Mr. Ailes .
`` I would continue to look for a stable crude market , at least in futures '' trading , said William Hinton , an energy futures broker with Stotler & amp ; Co .
On the New York Mercantile Exchange , West Texas Intermediate crude for November delivery finished at $ 20.89 a barrel , up 42 cents on the day .
On European markets , meanwhile , spot prices of North Sea crudes were up 35 to 75 cents a barrel .
`` This market still wants to go higher , '' said Nauman Barakat , a first vice president at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc .
There also are recurring reports that the Soviet Union is having difficulties with its oil exports and that Nigeria has about reached its production limit and ca n't produce as much as it could sell .
Weatherford International Inc. said it canceled plans for a preferred-stock swap but may resume payment of dividends on the stock , and added that it expects to publicly offer about 10 million common shares .
The delegation included a reporter from the New York Times , aides to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy and Rep. Les AuCoin , and Natural Resources Defense Council staff members .
-- The U.S.S.R. has taken unprecedented unilateral measures of openness , by giving American representatives a possibility to inspect the building site of the Krasnoyarsk radar as well as radar vans in the areas of Gomel and Moscow , so as to see for themselves that there are no violations of the ABM treaty of 1972 on the part of the Soviet Union .
-- Letter from Eduard Shevardnadze to U.N. Secretary-General Perez de Cuellar , reported in Tass , June 10 , 1988 .
-- The construction of this station equal in size to the Egyptian pyramids constituted , I say it directly , a clear violation of ABM .
We 're happy , we guess , to receive confirmation of the Krasnoyarsk violation from the Soviets , five years after we started writing about it .
Our own test of `` glasnost 's '' authenticity would be a Soviet decision to open itself to a complete international examination of one of the most troubling mysteries in U.S.-Soviet relations -- the reported 1979 anthrax outbreak at a Soviet military facility in Sverdlovsk .
The U.S. government has never waivered in its assessment of this incident as an accident at a biological weapons facility there , and hence a violation of the 1972 Biological Weapons Convention .
These were Allied Stores , Western Union Telegraph , Gillett Holdings , SCI Television and Texas Air , though many other bonds in Columbia 's portfolio also have lost value .
You sell the good bank as an ongoing operation and use some of the proceeds to capitalize the bad bank , '' says thrift specialist Lewis Ranieri of Ranieri Associates in New York .
Mr. Gurria , Mexico 's under-secretary of the ministry of finance , met yesterday with European bankers in London , at the half-way point on a so-called road show to market the package around the world .
China 's top film actress , Liu Xiaoqing , paid $ 4,555 in back taxes and fines in Shandong province , the People 's Daily reported .
China will spend $ 9.45 million for urgent maintenance on Tibet 's Potala Palace , former home of the Dalai Lama , the China News Service said .
The Dalai Lama , who was just awarded the Nobel Peace Prize , lives in exile in India .
American Business Computer Corp. said it privately placed 1,035,000 common shares at $ 2.50 a share .
The placement was made through Gray Seifert Securities , New York , to institutional investors .
Robert P. Bulseco , 44 years old , was named president and chief administrative officer of this regional commercial bank .
Robert Robie , 51 , was named to the new positions of vice chairman and chief credit officer .
Mr. Bromwich , 35 , also has served as deputy chief and chief of the narcotics unit for the U.S. attorney 's office for the Southern District of New York , based in Manhattan .
Rockwell International Corp. 's Tulsa unit said it signed a tentative agreement extending its contract with Boeing Co. to provide structural parts for Boeing 's 747 jetliners .
Rockwell said the agreement calls for it to supply 200 additional so-called shipsets for the planes .
Under the existing contract , Rockwell said , it has already delivered 793 of the shipsets to Boeing .
Rockwell , based in El Segundo , Calif. , is an aerospace , electronics , automotive and graphics concern .
Frank Carlucci III was named to this telecommunications company 's board , filling the vacancy created by the death of William Sobey last May .
Mr. Carlucci , 59 years old , served as defense secretary in the Reagan administration .
In January , he accepted the position of vice chairman of Carlyle Group , a merchant banking concern .
Look at what happened to UAL 's chairman , Stephen M. Wolf , and its chief financial officer , John C. Pope .
Cadbury Schweppes Australia Ltd. has held the Australian Pepsi franchise for the past four years .
Lion Nathan and PepsiCola Australia , a unit of PepsiCo Inc. of the U.S. , did n't say why Cadbury Schweppes will no longer hold the franchise .
Safeway Stores Inc. reported a 69 % decline in profit for the fiscal third quarter , but said operating improvements were masked by unusual gains in the year-earlier period .
The Oakland grocery retailer , closely held since a $ 4.2 billion leveraged buy-out in 1986 , said profit for the three months ended Sept. 9 was $ 7.1 million , compared with $ 23 million a year earlier .
If bluebloods wo n't pay high prices for racehorses anymore , who will ?
The Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association , a Lexington , Ky.-based trade group , has launched `` seminars '' for `` potential investors '' at race tracks around the country .
`` People in this business have been insulated , '' says Josh Pons , a horse breeder from Bel Air , Md .
At the Laurel race track , the breeders are romancing people like Tim Hulings , a beer packaging plant worker .
Right now , Mr. Hulings is waving his racing program , cheering for Karnak on the Nile , a sleek thoroughbred galloping down the home stretch .
The explosion sent shards of metal flying , severing the DC-10 's hydraulic or control systems , and led to the crash that killed 112 people .
But investigators could confirm their theory only after the recent retrieval of a big chunk of Flight 232 's tail engine from a cornfield near the Sioux City Airport in Iowa .
The safety board will begin four days of hearings on the accident tomorrow in Sioux City .
Among the issues the board will examine is whether United Airlines , a unit of UAL Corp. , should have been able to detect the cracks through maintenance checks .
The engine involved was a CF6-6 made by General Electric Co .
Anthony Broderick , the FAA 's acting executive director for regulatory standards and compliance , said that recent tests of the failed engine disk indicate that a flaw -- known as `` hard alpha '' -- occurred in the titanium during its production almost 20 years ago .
The FAA already has ordered that all 232 disks made by the old process be removed from the planes and subjected to an ultrasonic test in a water-submersion chamber .
A spokesman for GE said that the company has been working with the FAA all along on this issue and `` will comply fully with the required inspections . ''
But he also pointed out that the recalls will have no impact on GE 's engine production .
Debenture holders will also receive the equivalent of 10 % of the common stock of CNW Holdings .
The equity kicker is not attached to the offering , but underwriters said it will be offered after a filing for 68,548 common shares of CNW Holdings is declared effective by the Securities & amp ; Exchange Commission .
Rated single-B-2 by Moody 's Investors Service Inc. and single-B-minus by Standard & amp ; Poor 's Corp. , the issue will be sold through underwriters led by Donaldson Lufkin & amp ; Jenrette Securities Corp .
Tokuyama Soda Co . ( Japan ) -- $ 200 million of Eurobonds due Nov. 9 , 1993 , with equity-purchase warrants , indicating a 4 % coupon at par , via Nomura International Ltd .
Heller Financial Inc. , an indirect subsidiary of Fuji Bank Ltd. , shelf offering of up to $ 1 billion debt securities and warrants .
Jason Overseas Ltd. , proposed offering of five million common shares , via Smith Barney & amp ; Co. and Mabon Nugent & amp ; Co .
MCI Communications Corp. , shelf offering of up to $ 750 million of debt securities via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets , Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , Goldman , Sachs & amp ; Co. , and Salomon Brothers Inc .
Millicom Inc. , offering of $ 60 million subordinated exchangeable debentures , via Bear , Stearns & amp ; Co. . Inc .
Union Tank Car Co. , offering of $ 100 million of equipment trust certificates , via Salomon Brothers .
Then by a separate 4-0 vote , it chose the narrowest possible grounds to strike down a different discount plan , called Tariff 15 , that AT & amp ; T offered to Holiday Corp .
AT & amp ; T gave a 5 % to 10 % discount to the Memphis , Tenn. , company that oversees Holiday Inns , in response to a similar discount offered to Holiday Corp. by MCI Communications Corp .
The agency said that because MCI 's offer had expired AT & amp ; T could n't continue to offer its discount plan .
Indeed , Joe Nacchio , AT & amp ; T 's vice president for business-communications services , said AT & amp ; T offered a similar Tariff 15 discount to Resort Condominium International , of Indianapolis , to meet another MCI bid .
Richard Firestone , chief of the FCC 's common-carrier bureau , said he expected the agency to propose new rules next year .
AT & amp ; T applauded the FCC 's actions .
In the past five years , Japanese companies have tripled their commitments in Asia to $ 5.57 billion .
In Thailand , for example , the government 's Board of Investment approved $ 705.6 million of Japanese investment in 1988 , 10 times the U.S. investment figure for the year .
Japan 's commitment in Southeast Asia also includes steep increases in foreign assistance and trade .
Asia 's other cash-rich countries are following Japan 's lead and pumping capital into the region .
In Taiwan and South Korea , rising wages are forcing manufacturers to seek other overseas sites for labor-intensive production .
These nations , known as Asia 's `` little tigers , '' also are contributing to Southeast Asia 's integration , but their influence will remain subordinate to Japan 's .
For recipient countries such as Thailand and Malaysia , the investment will provide needed jobs and spur growth .
Because of budget constraints in Washington , the U.S. encourages Japan to share economic burdens in the region .
Susumu Ohara , president of Nihon Keizai Shinbun America Inc. , publisher of the Japan Economic Journal , said he receives telephone calls weekly from media bankers on whether his parent company is interested in buying a U.S. consumer or business magazine .
`` The Japanese are in the early stage right now , '' said Thomas Kenney , a onetime media adviser for First Boston Corp. who was recently appointed president of Reader 's Digest Association 's new Magazine Publishing Group .
Now they realize magazines are as much a franchise as Nabisco is a franchise .
`` Profits at Christmas could be under attack for every retailer , '' asserts Norman Abramson , president and chief operating officer of Clothestime Inc. , an off-price chain .
`` For the last two and a half years , retailing has been in a mild recession , '' says Carl Steidtmann , chief economist at the Columbus , Ohio , consulting firm .
This year , many stores are entering the Christmas season in turmoil : Bonwit Teller and B. Altman parent L.J . Hooker Corp. is operating under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code ; B.A.T Industries PLC 's healthy Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field 's chains are on the auction block ; Campeau 's Bloomingdale 's is also on the block .
`` There are going to be very clear winners and very clear losers , '' says Cynthia Turk , a Touche Ross & amp ; Co. retail consultant .
Hertz Corp. of Park Ridge , N.J. , said it retained Merrill Lynch Capital Markets to sell its Hertz Equipment Rental Corp. unit .
`` There is no pressing need to sell the unit , but we are doing it so we can concentrate on our core business , renting automobiles in the U.S. and abroad , '' said William Slider , Hertz 's executive vice president .
Hertz Equipment had operating profit before depreciation of $ 90 million on revenue of $ 150 million in 1988 .
The closely held Hertz Corp. had annual revenue of close to $ 2 billion in 1988 , of which $ 1.7 billion was contributed by its Hertz Rent A Car operations world-wide .
Hertz Equipment is a major supplier of rental equipment in the U.S. , France , Spain and the U.K .
Allegheny Ludlum Corp. expects to report third-quarter net of about $ 34 million , or $ 1.50 a share , down from $ 38.4 million , or $ 1.70 a share , a year earlier , Richard P. Simmons , chairman and chief executive officer , told institutional investors in New York .
Sales for the Pittsburgh-based producer of specialty steels and other materials fell to about $ 265 million in the third quarter from $ 320.5 million a year earlier , he said .
Enron Corp. , Houston , said the sale of preference units of its newly formed Enron NGL Partners L.P. master limited partnership subsidiary will result in an undetermined gain in the fourth quarter .
In a related move , Enron said it increased the number of the partnership 's units it will offer to 6,930,000 from 5,500,000 .
The company attributed lower sales and earnings for the steel segment to the loss of results from the Lorain , Ohio , plant , which now is a 50-50 joint venture with Japan 's Kobe Steel Ltd .
Profit per ton of steel shipped dropped to about $ 33 a ton from $ 42 a ton last year and $ 53 a ton in the second quarter , analysts said .
Still , USX fared better than other major steelmakers , earning more per ton of steel shipped than either Bethlehem Steel Corp. , which posted a 54 % drop in net income , or Inland Steel Industries Inc. , whose profit plummeted 70 % .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , USX shares closed up $ 1.25 , at $ 34.625 , as the reported earnings exceeded projections by some analysts who had n't expected as great a volume of asset sales .
The rise in the stock 's price may also reflect the fact that USX 's steel segment fared better than some other steelmakers ' .
Charles Bradford , an analyst with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets , said USX may have received orders lost by competitors who were involved in labor contracts earlier this year .
Higher crude oil prices helped boost operating profit for the Marathon Oil Co. unit to $ 198 million from $ 180 million .
The Texas Oil & amp ; Gas division continues to operate in the red , although losses narrowed to $ 9 million from $ 15 million .
USX announced in October that it was soliciting bids to sell TXO 's oil and gas reserves .
Sony 's planned acquisition of Guber\/Peters Entertainment Co. for $ 200 million is scheduled to close Monday .
Guber\/Peters has been locked in litigation with Warner Communications Inc. in an attempt to get out of an exclusive production contract with Warner .
All this has cast a pall over Columbia Savings & amp ; Loan Association and its high-rolling 43-year-old chairman , Thomas Spiegel , who built the $ 12.7 billion Beverly Hills , Calif. , thrift with high-yield junk bonds .
And some investors fault Mr. Spiegel 's life style ; he earns millions of dollars a year and flies around in Columbia 's jet planes .
Columbia stock recently hit 4 , after reaching 11 earlier this year on rumors that Mr. Spiegel would take the thrift private .
But in recent days , Columbia has edged up , closing at 5 , up 3\/8 , yesterday on revived speculation that the thrift might restructure .
Mr. Spiegel 's fans say Columbia 's Southern California branches are highly salable , and the thrift has $ 458 million of shareholders equity underlying its assets .
ABC , a unit of Capital Cities\/ABC Inc. , and General Electric Co. 's National Broadcasting Co. also risk losses if they outbid CBS for other contracts .
`` The networks are paying too much for rights , '' warns adman Paul Isacsson of Young & amp ; Rubicam .
`` As we 've seen in the '80s , '' says Roger Werner , the president of the ESPN sports channel , `` those deals can turn sour if the numbers do n't work .
CBS pursues top sports `` to belie the fact that they are n't supporting affiliates , viewers and advertisers , '' charges Thomas H. Wyman , who was ousted as chairman of CBS Inc. after Laurence A. Tisch bought a 24.9 % stake in the company and took over three years ago .
On just three big deals -- for four years of baseball and for the Olympic Winter Games in both 1992 and 1994 -- Pilson bid a total of $ 1.64 billion .
IBM 's earnings tumbled 30 % in the third quarter , slightly more than expected .
Budget director Darman said he wo n't give federal agencies much leeway in coping with Gramm-Rudman spending cuts , which took effect yesterday .
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether a federal court may dismantle a merger that has won regulatory approval but been ruled anticompetitive in a private suit .
Merrill Lynch 's profit slid 37 % in the third quarter .
`` The next stage is to get beyond the opinion leaders who use us as a point of reference to become a point of reference at ordinary dinner tables , '' says Jon Petrovich , executive vice president of Headline News , CNN 's sister network .
And the cable-TV operators -- CNN 's distributors and part owners -- like things just the way they are .
Already , CNN is facing stronger competition from Financial News Network Inc. and General Electric Co. 's Consumer News and Business Channel , both of which are likely to pursue more general news in the future .
Its watchers are , on the whole , a disloyal group of channel-zapping `` grazers '' and news junkies , who spend an average of just 26 minutes a day watching CNN , according to audience research .
It filled its daily schedule with newscasts called `` Daybreak , '' `` Daywatch , '' `` Newsday , '' and `` Newsnight , '' but the shows varied little in content , personality or look .
The Baker proposal reasserts Washington 's intention to continue playing a leading political role in the region .
Japan not only outstrips the U.S. in investment flows but also outranks it in trade with most Southeast Asian countries ( although the U.S. remains the leading trade partner for all of Asia ) .
Moreover , the Japanese government , now the world 's largest aid donor , is pumping far more assistance into the region than the U.S. is .
While U.S. officials voice optimism about Japan 's enlarged role in Asia , they also convey an undertone of caution .
`` There 's an understanding on the part of the U.S. that Japan has to expand its functions '' in Asia , says J. Michael Farren , undersecretary of commerce for trade .
Some Asian nations are apprehensive about Washington 's demand that Tokyo step up its military spending to ease the U.S. security burden in the region .
A consumer poll conducted in early September by Leo J. Shapiro & amp ; Associates , a market researcher based in Chicago , also suggests a modest holiday .
When President Bush arrives here next week for a hemispheric summit organized to commemorate a century of Costa Rican democracy , will he be able to deliver a credible message in the wake of the Panamanian fiasco ?
`` The { influence of the } U.S. is not being felt in Central America ; Washington 's decisions do not respond to a policy , and are divorced from reality , '' says Fernando Volio , a Costa Rican congressman and former foreign minister .
The disarray of the Bush administration 's Latin diplomacy was evident in the failure of the Organization of American States to condemn categorically Gen. Noriega .
Faced with this embarrassment , U.S. diplomats expressed confidence that the influential Rio Group of South American nations , which gathered last week in Peru , would take a stronger posture toward the Panamanian dictator .
As much as Republicans led the opposition , among the 53 Democrats voting against treating the payments as an entitlement , 42 came from the 13 states in the Old Dixiecrat South and its borders .
The measure provides $ 321 million to maintain services but would sharply curb the power of the current board until successors are agreed to by the Bush administration .
The conservative bent of the incumbent appointees , named by former President Reagan , has divided Republicans .
And on back-to-back roll calls , 206-199 and 223-178 , the Appropriations Committee leadership turned back efforts to weaken or strip the proposed restrictions first added by Sen. Warren Rudman ( R. , N.H. )
The estimated $ 40 million from the new pre-merger notification fee would be divided between the Justice Department 's Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission , which both face serious cuts if the income is n't realized .
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is slated to receive $ 30 million by charging for fingerprint services in civil cases , and the judiciary will rely on another $ 32 million from bankruptcy charges , including a 33 % increase in the current filing fee .
The $ 17.2 billion total for the bill does n't include an estimated $ 1.2 billion in supplemental anti-drug funds approved by the House-Senate conference yesterday , and the rush of money is already provoking jealousy among states competing for assistance .
The House agreed to defer for a year a scheduled 50 % increase in the required state matching funds for law-enforcement grants but , by a 287-123 margin , the chamber stripped a Senate initiative to raise the minimum grant for smaller states , such as New Hampshire and Delaware , to $ 1.6 million from $ 500,000 .
Healthcare operates many of the health-care properties that HealthVest owns .
A Canadian government agency conditionally approved proposed exports to the U.S. of natural gas from big , untapped fields in the Mackenzie River delta area of the western Canadian Arctic .
Three companies , Esso Resources Canada Ltd. , Shell Canada Ltd. and Gulf Canada Resources Ltd. , applied to the Canadian National Energy Board to export 9.2 trillion cubic feet of Mackenzie delta natural gas over 20 years starting in 1996 .
The board said the export licenses would be issued on the condition that Canadian interests would also be allowed to bid for the Mackenzie delta gas on terms similar to those offered to U.S. customers .
The project could result in the U.S. taking more than 10 % of its natural gas supplies from Canada , up from about 5 % currently .
That 's essentially what budget director Richard Darman is suggesting , and we think he deserves as much support as he can get .
Congress , with a measure of White House complicity , has been manipulating the spending accounts for years under the cover of omnibus appropriations bills .
Under the law , Gramm-Rudman 's across-the-board-cuts in federal programs are supposed to be permanent .
Social Security and spending for poor people are exempted .
However , the Associated Press 's account of the Monday sequester order signed by President Bush neatly captured the contempt Congress shows toward the notion of a legally binding commitment :
Index traders who buy all 500 stocks in the S & amp ; P 500 often do n't even know what the companies they own actually do , complains Andrew Sigler , chairman of Champion International Corp .
By this September , program traders were doing a record 13.8 % of the Big Board 's average daily trading volume .
For example , stock-index futures began trading in Chicago in 1982 , and within two years they were the fastest-growing futures contract ever launched .
Now , on a good day , Chicago 's stock-index traders trade more dollars worth of stock futures than the Big Board trades in stock .
Program traders ' `` power to create total panic is so great that they ca n't be allowed to have their way , '' says Rep. Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat .
The Big Board 's directors meet today to approve some program-trading restrictions , but a total ban is n't being considered , Big Board officials say .
Arbitrage simply transfers his selling pressure from Chicago to New York , while functioning as a buyer in Chicago .
Policies designed to encourage one type of investor over another are akin to placing a sign over the Big Board 's door saying : `` Buyers welcome , sellers please go away ! '' The ultimate goal of any investor is a profit motive , and regulators should not concern themselves with whether investors are sufficiently focused on the long term .
Mr. Allen 's Pittsburgh firm , Advanced Investment Management Inc. , executes program trades for institutions .
Some Democrats in Congress are warning that a complicated new funding device for the two federal antitrust agencies could result in further cutbacks in a regulatory area already reduced sharply in recent years .
The funding mechanism , which has received congressional approval and is expected to be signed by President Bush , would affect the antitrust operations of the Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission .
As a part of overall efforts to reduce spending , Congress cut by $ 30 million the Bush administration 's request for antitrust enforcement for fiscal 1990 , which began Oct. 1 .
To offset the reduction , Congress approved a $ 20,000 fee that investors and companies will have to pay each time they make required filings to antitrust regulators about mergers , acquisitions and certain other transactions .
Some Democrats , led by Rep. Jack Brooks ( D. , Texas ) , unsuccessfully opposed the measure because they fear that the fees may not fully make up for the budget cuts .
Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew , Singapore 's leader and one of Asia 's leading statesmen for 30 years , recently announced his intention to retire next year -- though not necessarily to end his influence .
The 66-year-old Mr. Lee recently spent an hour discussing the state of Asia and the world with two Journal reporters in his plainly furnished , wood-paneled office .
The interview did not touch on Singapore 's domestic affairs .
Skipping personal pleasantries , Mr. Lee picked up exactly where he left off several months earlier -- before the government crackdown in China -- when he had warned that the orthodox leadership in Beijing feared a plurality of views .
`` It took Zhao Ziyang ( former premier and party chief ) 10 years to build a team of economists who understood how the Western economies work and now that team is part in exile , part being rusticated and part missing . ''
On similarities between China and the Soviet Union : `` In important particulars , the Soviets are different from the Chinese .
Arkla Exploration owns sizable gas and crude-oil reserves in the South and Southwest .
Wall Street Journal reporters called companies with headquarters or facilities in the Bay area in a bid to assess the damage to their operations caused by Tuesday 's earthquake .
ADIA SERVICES INC. , Menlo Park , temporary personnel agency , annual sales of $ 504 million , OTC , said all 30 offices in Bay area were working , but in various states of disarray .
ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC. , Sunnyvale , integrated circuit maker , annual sales of $ 1.12 billion , NYSE , had only minor structural damage .
AMDAHL CORP. , Sunnyvale , computer maker , annual sales of $ 1.8 billion , Amex , was closed yesterday and no damage estimates were available .
AMERICAN BUILDING MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES Inc. , San Francisco , provider of maintenance services , annual revenue of $ 582 million , NYSE , had some damage to headquarters and lost phone service , but operations were moved to a branch office and are running smoothly thanks to a decentralized computer system the company had developed before the quake .
AMERICAN PRESIDENT COS. , Oakland , shipping concern , annual sales of $ 2.2 billion , NYSE , had little damage to the cranes , dock or rail track at its container-ship facility near the collapsed Route 880 overpass .
ANACOMP INC. , Indianapolis , NYSE , said its Xidex Corp. unit , a Sunnyvale maker of computer disks and microfilm with annual sales of $ 637 million , had only minor damage and is fully operational .
ANTHEM ELECTRONICS INC. , San Jose , distributor of electronic parts , annual sales of about $ 300 million , NYSE , sustained very little damage , anticipated being `` in 100 % operating condition '' by midday .
Corporations like Contel denounce program trading , yet Contel has in the past hired pension fund managers like Bankers Trust Co. that are also big program traders .
The Big Board -- the nation 's premier stock exchange -- is sharply divided between its floor traders and its top executives .
But the Big Board 's leadership -- over the specialists ' protests -- two weeks ago began trading a new stock `` basket '' product designed to facilitate program trading .
Critics like Mr. Murray `` are looking for witches , and people who use computers to trade are a convenient boogieman , '' says J. Thomas Allen , president of Advanced Investment Management Inc. , a Pittsburgh firm that runs a $ 200 million fund that uses index arbitrage .
`` If you continue to do this , the investor becomes frightened -- any investor : the odd lotter , mutual funds and pension funds , '' says Larry Zicklin , managing partner at Neuberger & amp ; Berman .
`` I have not seen one iota of evidence '' to support restrictions on program trading , says a Vanderbilt University finance professor , Hans Stoll , an authority on the subject .
Other new board members include John S. Harrison and Mark A. Adley of First Boston , James F. Lyons , William S. Goldberg and Harold S. Handelsman .
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said that Congress should grant the Securities and Exchange Commission the power to close the stock markets in periods of crisis .
In testimony to the Senate securities subcommittee , Mr. Brady disputed the view of SEC Chairman Richard Breeden , who told a House panel Wednesday that he does n't want the ability to halt the markets .
Separately , Mr. Brady said he asked the Working Group on Financial Markets to determine whether futures margins are too low .
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange margins for the Standard & amp ; Poor 's 500 stock-index futures stood at $ 10,000 a contract for speculators and $ 5,000 for hedgers before Oct. 16 , 1987 ; that day the hedging margin was raised to $ 7,500 .
GE , which was surprised by the last-minute subpoena for more than 100 boxes and file cabinets of documents , countered that senior GE managers did n't find out about questionable billing practices until 1985 , and that the information was passed on quickly to Mr. Orr at his first meeting with company representatives .
Subsequent meetings , initiated after the company and two of its units were briefly suspended from federal contracts , were held to familiarize Mr. Orr with the company 's self-policing procedures and to disclose additional information , according to GE .
GE 's filing contends that the billing practices at the heart of the current controversy involved technical disputes rather than criminal activity .
The company 's conduct `` does not even raise a question of wrongful corporate intent , ratification or cover-up , '' GE 's brief asserts .
Directors of Bergen Bank and Den Norske Creditbank , two of Norway 's leading banks , announced they had agreed to the formal merger of the banks .
The merger would create Scandinavia 's seventh largest bank , with combined assets of 210 billion Norwegian kroner ( $ 30.3 billion ) .
The banks said an application for a concession to merge into one entity to be called Den Norske Bank AS was sent Monday to the Finance Ministry .
The two boards said in a joint statement that the proposed merger agreement was considered in separate board meetings in Oslo Monday .
International Business Machines Corp. agreed to acquire a 15 % stake in Paxus Corp. , an Australian computer-software and information-services concern , for 20 million Australian dollars ( US $ 17 million ) .
Secretary of State Baker expressed concern that Nicaraguan President Ortega may attempt to use alleged attacks by the U.S.backed Contra rebels as an excuse to scuttle elections scheduled for February .
The USS Lexington returned to dock in Pensacola , Fla. , following an accident Sunday in which the pilot of a training jet crashed into the ship , killing five sailors .
The captain of the aircraft carrier , the oldest in the Navy , said the flier was making his first attempt to land on a carrier .
Four people torched three U.S. flags on the central steps of the U.S. Capitol in a bid to test a new federal law protecting the American flag from desecration .
The law , which Bush allowed to take effect without his signature , went into force Friday .
Chinese officials said armed police would replace soldiers in Tiananmen Square as part of a scaling down of Beijing 's five-month-old state of emergency .
Separately , the U.S. Embassy has filed three protests in as many days with China 's government , alleging harassment of diplomats and their families , an embassy source said .
Authorities in Algeria said the toll from two earthquakes Sunday had reached at least 30 dead and about 250 injured .
Both MCA 's music-entertainment and book-publishing units also posted record revenue and operating profit .
The parent company 's net included a loss -- which it did n't specify -- that was related to the company 's 50 % stake in Cineplex Odeon Corp .
Cineplex , a Toronto theater chain , had a second-quarter net loss of $ 38.7 million .
MCA said net also included certain reserves related to the restructuring of its LJN Toys ' international operations .
These items were partly offset , MCA said , by an unspecified gain on the sale of its Miller International unit , a maker and distributor of budget-priced audio cassettes .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading , MCA rose $ 1.50 to $ 64 .
The effete Tyrannosaurus Rex Had strict Cretaceous views on sex , And that is why you only see him Reproduced in the museum .
CARTER HAWLEY HALE STORES Inc. , Los Angeles , retailer , annual sales of $ 2.79 billion , NYSE , said nine of its 22 Emporium stores in the area were closed because of water damage , broken windows and fallen displays .
CHEVRON CORP. , San Francisco , oil company , annual sales of $ 25.2 billion , NYSE , had minor damage to downtown headquarters , but structural damage closed two of its seven buildings in San Ramone industrial park .
CLOROX Co. , Oakland , consumer products , annual sales of $ 1.36 billion , NYSE , was closed yesterday but plans to reopen today or tomorrow .
Meanwhile , orders are being routed through Kingsford Products unit in Louisville , Ky. , but computer problems mean they must be processed manually .
COHERENT INC. , Palo Alto , laser maker , annual sales of $ 159 million , was closed yesterday but expects to reopen today .
CONSOLIDATED FREIGHTWAYS INC. , Menlo Park , trucking company , $ 2.69 billion in annual sales , NYSE , had structural damage to CF Motor Freight subsidiary 's office in Palo Alto , no damage in Menlo Park .
COOPER COMPANIES INC. , Palo Alto , medical products maker , annual sales of $ 628 million , NYSE , had little damage and was in full operation yesterday .
DAYTON HUDSON CORP. , Minneapolis , retailer , annual sales of $ 12.2 billion , NYSE , closed seven of its 13 Bay-area Target discount stores and nine of its 20 Mervyn 's department stores because of pending reviews by structural engineers or requests from authorities , who were trying to keep shoppers off the freeways .
DIASONICS INC. , South San Francisco , maker of magnetic resonance imaging equipment , annual sales of $ 281 million , Amex , had minor damage , mostly in a stockroom .
Mr. Krampe also said that Mercedes plans to bring out new models every year through the mid-1990s and it will shorten its product development cycle to eight years from 10 or 12 years to compete more effectively with Toyota Motor Corp. 's Lexus , Nissan Motor Co. 's Infiniti and Honda Motor Co. 's Acura luxury-car divisions .
Apogee Enterprises Inc. said profit for the third quarter ending Dec. 2 will fall below the year-earlier results because of an after-tax charge of $ 1.9 million related to a project that was guaranteed by the company .
A year ago , the Minneapolis glass products and aluminum window maker earned $ 4 million , or 30 cents a share , on revenue of $ 114 million .
Apogee said the charge stems from a building supply contract in which the company guaranteed a contractor 's performance .
Apogee said a subcontractor had severe cost overruns and was unable to fulfill the contract terms on its own , making it necessary for Apogee to advance cash to ensure completion of the project .
Rupert Murdoch acquired a 25 % stake in Grupo Zeta S.A. , the leading Spanish magazine and newspaper publisher said .
The transaction called for Mr. Murdoch 's News International PLC , a unit of Australia-based News Corp. , to subscribe to a rights issue by Zeta valued at 6.65 billion pesetas ( $ 57 million ) .
Also participating in the issue was Servifilm Spain Cinematografica S.A .
The film producer , owned by Madrid-based financier Jacques Hachuel , received a 5 % stake in the Barcelona-based publishing group .
The cash injection boosted Zeta 's capital more than four-fold , to 8.47 billion pesetas from 1.82 billion pesetas , greatly enhancing the group 's ability to make investments , Zeta officials said .
But it continued to badly trail its San Francisco neighbor , Wells Fargo & amp ; Co. , which reported an extraordinary 1.25 % return on assets .
`` They { BankAmerica } continue to show good performance , '' said Donald K. Crowley , an analyst with Keefe , Bruyette & amp ; Woods Inc. , San Francisco .
In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange , BankAmerica common stock edged up 12.5 cents to close at $ 32 a share .
BankAmerica 's total loans rose 8 % to $ 71.36 billion .
For the nine months , BankAmerica profit soared 81 % to $ 833 million , or $ 4.07 a share , from $ 461 million , or $ 2.40 a share .
Golden Nugget Inc. reported a third-quarter net loss of $ 13.1 million , or 76 cents a share , based on 17.2 million common shares and dilutive equivalents outstanding .
Most of the expenses stem from the company 's huge Mirage resort-casino scheduled to open next month along the Strip , and an April 1989 financing by units operating the downtown Golden Nugget property .
For the nine months , Golden Nugget reported a net loss of $ 11.4 million , or 69 cents a share , based on 16.6 million common and dilutive equivalents outstanding .
John Uphoff , an analyst with Raymond James & amp ; Associates , said the results were n't surprising , and attributed the buy-back to management 's confidence in the Mirage 's ability to generate strong cash flow in 1990 .
Yesterday , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading , Golden Nugget common closed at $ 28.25 , up $ 2 .
At GMAC , net dropped 3.1 % to $ 234.5 million from $ 241.9 million .
GMAC said its automotive financing and leasing business rose 35 % in the U.S. , largely because of dealer and customer incentives used to boost sales .
GMAC profits are combined with earnings from the rest of GM 's operations and attributed to the company 's traditional common stock .
In the first nine months , GMAC 's earnings fell 8 % to $ 859.5 million from $ 930.2 million .
At EDS , third-quarter profit jumped 16 % to a record $ 110.9 million , or 93 cents a share , from $ 95.9 million , or 79 cents a share .
In the nine months , EDS earned $ 315.8 million , or $ 2.62 a share , up 13 % from $ 280.7 million , or $ 2.30 a share .
Revenue from non-GM accounts was 45 % of EDS 's total business in the latest nine months , compared with 40 % a year earlier .
In a corner of the cavernous , new Nippon Convention Center sits Mazda Motor Corp. 's advanced-technology display .
Alberto M. Paracchini , currently chairman of BanPonce , will serve as president of the bank holding company and chairman of the subsidiary .
Banco Popular originally proposed the merger in July , in a cash and stock transaction valued at $ 50 a share , or about $ 293 million .
BanPonce reacted cooly at first , but appeared to be won over , analysts said , by Banco Popular 's assurances that it wanted only a friendly transaction .
`` Banco Popular just kept waiting , '' said Edward Thompson , a vice president and analyst at Thomson BankWatch Inc. in New York .
BanPonce caters to a more affluent customer , while Banco Popular has always had a large presence among middle-income and lower-income markets .
The merger should also allow the companies to reduce costs by combining operations in many locations in Puerto Rico .
Richard Carrion , who is currently president and chief executive officer of Banco Popular , said the merger will result in a `` larger and stronger locally based bank . ''
Mr. Carrion , who will now serve as president and chief executive officer of the subsidiary bank , added : `` We 'll be able to better compete with large foreign banks .
The newly merged company will have 165 branches in Puerto Rico and 27 branches outside of the island .
Under terms of the sale , Nuggets owner Sidney Shlenker could receive up to $ 11 million in additional payments from the franchise 's future earnings .
Messrs. Lee and Bynoe last July announced a deal that would have made them the first black principal owners of a major professional sports franchise .
Comsat Video is headed by Robert Wussler , who resigned his No . 2 executive post with Turner Broadcasting System Inc. just two weeks ago to take the Comsat position .
Comsat Video , which distributes pay-per-view programs to hotel rooms , plans to add Nuggets games to their offerings , as Mr. Turner did successfully with his Atlanta Hawks and Braves sports teams .
Messrs. Lee and Bynoe will manage the Nuggets ' day-today affairs .
Winnebago Industries Inc. , battered by a deepening slowdown in recreational vehicle industry sales , reported a widened fourth-quarter loss and slashed its dividend in half .
The Forest City , Iowa , maker of motor homes said it had a loss of $ 11.3 million , or 46 cents a share , in the quarter ended Aug. 26 .
The cut in the dividend to 10 cents a share semiannually , from 20 cents , `` would indicate to me they do n't see the problems being fixed real quick , '' said Frank Rolfes , an analyst at Dain Bosworth Inc. in Minneapolis .
Indeed , Winnebago said it started `` several promotional programs '' to spur retail sales in the fall and winter .
But the rate of the decline snowballed in August , with unit sales to dealers for the month down 10.5 % from a year earlier , according to the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association .
But the Fed is n't enthusiastic about Treasury efforts to bring down the value of the dollar through intervention in foreign-exchange markets , and the Treasury is frustrated at the Fed 's reluctance to cut interest rates to pull down the dollar 's value .
Mr. Greenspan said the inflation rate , currently about 4 % , `` could be brought down to levels which are close to zero without putting the economy into a recession , but I do suspect that there might be some modest loss of economic output . ''
But Mr. Greenspan , who has repeatedly said the Fed 's goal is to reduce inflation , added that `` whatever losses are incurred in the pursuing of price stability would surely be more than made up in increased output thereafter . ''
Rep. Neal 's bill originally called on the Fed to reduce the inflation rate by one percentage point a year for five years and to maintain a zero inflation rate thereafter .
He altered the wording to win Mr. Greenspan 's endorsement .
Reps. Hamilton and Dorgan also have altered their bill , dropping a proposal to add the Treasury secretary to the 12-member Fed committee that makes monetary policy .
Mr. Greenspan also said that although he favors cutting capital-gains taxes as sound economic policy , he would oppose such a move if it would undo the political compromise embodied in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and result in higher marginal income tax rates .
SHORT INTEREST in International Mobile Machines Corp. fell to 3,102,935 shares in the month ended Oct. 13 from 3,420,936 in September .
Because of an error by the National Association of Securities Dealers , the listing appeared incorrectly in the main table and several highlight tables in yesterday 's edition .
LSI Logic Corp. reported a surprise $ 35.7 million third-quarter net loss , including a special restructuring charge that reflects a continuing industry-wide slowdown in semiconductor demand .
`` Over the summer months , there has been a slowing in the rate of new orders from the computer sector , our primary market , '' said Wilfred J. Corrigan , chairman and chief executive officer .
Related to that decision , the company said it was converting its Santa Clara , Calif. , factory to a research and development facility .
`` This is a company that has invested in capacity additions more aggressively than any other company in the industry and now the industry is growing more slowly and they are suddenly poorly positioned , '' said Michael Stark , chip analyst at Robertson , Stephens & amp ; Co .
Part of the problem is that chip buyers are keeping inventories low because of jitters about the course of the U.S. economy .
The Transportation Department , responding to pressure from safety advocates , took further steps to impose on light trucks and vans the safety requirements used for automobiles .
John Leinonen , executive engineer of Ford Motor Co. 's auto-safety office , said Ford trucks have met car standards for roof-crush resistance since 1982 .
Ford began installing the rear-seat belts in trucks with its F-series Crew Cab pickups in the 1989 model year .
The new Explorer sport-utility vehicle , set for introduction next spring , will also have the rear-seat belts .
Sir Peter Walters , 58-year-old chairman of British Petroleum Co. until next March , joins the board of this cement products company on Dec. 1 .
Sir Peter will succeed Sir John Milne , 65 , who retires as Blue Circle nonexecutive chairman on June 1 .
GOODY PRODUCTS Inc. cut its quarterly dividend to five cents a share from 11.5 cents a share .
The Kearny , N.J.-based maker of hair accessories and other cosmetic products said it cut the dividend due to its third-quarter loss of $ 992,000 , or 15 cents a share .
Michael Henderson , 51-year-old group chief executive of this U.K. metals and industrial materials maker , will become chairman in May , succeeding Ian Butler , 64 , who is retiring .
Mr. Butler will remain on the board as a nonexecutive director .
A spokeswoman for J.P. Morgan , parent of the bank Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. , confirmed its appointment to assist the managers but declined to elaborate .
The managers said in a brief statement yesterday that Morgan will help evaluate DFC 's position and help determine alternatives .
Sandoz AG , a major Swiss chemical and pharmaceutical group , said that its group sales rose 25 % to 9.482 billion francs ( $ 5.80 billion ) in the first nine months of this year , with strong gains in all divisions .
Control Data Corp. , Minneapolis , signed a joint development agreement with MIPS Computer Systems Inc. to incorporate an emerging computing architecture in future machines .
MIPS is a leader in what is known as reduced-instruction set computing , or RISC , a technology combining microprocessors and sophisticated software .
In joining MIPS , Control Data follows several competitors in embracing RISC as a new design approach .
Digital Equipment Corp. , Tandem Computers Inc. , NEC Corp. and Group Bull , among others , have similar arrangements with MIPs , based in Sunnyvale , Calif .
Renaissance is keeping its money entirely in cash equivalents , primarily U.S. Treasury bills .
`` We could n't get dealers to answer their phones , '' said Robert King , senior vice president of OTC trading at Robinson-Humphrey Co. in Atlanta .
Nasdaq volume Friday totaled 167.7 million shares , which was only the fifth busiest day so far this year .
`` There was n't a lot of volume because it was just impossible to get stock moved , '' said E.E . `` Buzzy '' Geduld , president of Herzog , Heine , Geduld , a New York company that makes markets in thousands of OTC issues .
Mr. King of Robinson-Humphrey and others were quick to add that they believe the problem stemmed more from traders ' inability to handle the volume of calls , rather than a deliberate attempt to avoid making trades .
Peter DaPuzzo , head of retail equity trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton , declared : `` It was the last hour of trading on a Friday .
James Tarantino , head of OTC trading at Hambrecht & amp ; Quist in San Francisco , said , `` It was just like two years ago .
Mr. Mahfouz began writing when there was no novelistic tradition in Arabic , and he modeled his work on Western classics .
In one sense , this limits him ; unlike a writer such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez , who has a distinctive Latin voice , Mr. Mahfouz 's style offers little that can be labeled `` Egyptian . ''
But the familiarity of his style also makes his work accessible , as the streets of Cairo come alive for the Western reader as vividly as Dickens 's London or Dostoevski 's St. Petersburg .
`` The Thief and the Dogs , '' written in 1961 , is a taut , psychological drama , reminiscent of `` Crime and Punishment . ''
Its antihero , Said Mahran , is an Egyptian Raskolnikov who seeks nobility in robbing and killing .
Said 's story reflects the souring of socialism under Nasser , whose dictatorial rule replaced the monarchy overthrown in 1952 .
Here , the city is dark and laden with symbolism : Said has left his jail cell only to enter the larger prison of Cairo society .
They all are strongly opposed to a petition from several Japanese TV manufacturers , including Matsushita , Hitachi , and Toshiba , to exempt portable color TVs with liquid-crystal displays from anti-dumping duties that the U.S. imposes on the larger Japanese color TVs .
Planar President James Hurd says he has to pay tariffs as high as 15 % to sell his display panels in Japan and South Korea , while panels from those countries enter the U.S. duty-free .
Pierre Vinken , 61 years old , will join the board as a nonexecutive director Nov. 29 .
Mr. Vinken is chairman of Elsevier N.V. , the Dutch publishing group .
The average seven-day compound yield of the 400 taxable funds tracked by IBC 's Money Fund Report eased a fraction of a percentage point to 8.45 % from 8.47 % for the week ended Tuesday .
Nevertheless , said Brenda Malizia Negus , editor of Money Fund Report , yields `` may blip up again before they blip down '' because of recent rises in short-term interest rates .
The yield on six-month Treasury bills sold at Monday 's auction , for example , rose to 8.04 % from 7.90 % .
J.P. Bolduc , vice chairman of W.R. Grace & amp ; Co. , which holds a 83.4 % interest in this energy-services company , was elected a director .
About 40 Italian businesses , including Fiat S.p . A. and Ing . C. Olivetti & amp ; Co. , have formed a consortium to lobby for holding the expo in Venice .
Three gambling casinos have opened in Poland .
The three establishments -- two in Warsaw and one in Krakow -- accept only foreign currency and are joint ventures between Polish firms and Western companies .
But Bogdan Gumkowski , who runs the casino at Warsaw 's Marriott Hotel , said the ventures would help Poland service its $ 39 billion foreign debt by pouring dollars into the state firms in the joint ventures -- the LOT airline and Orbis tourist organization .
Algeria plans to increase natural-gas sales to Europe and the U.S. .
According to the Middle East Economic Survey , the North African nation is holding talks with Italy for adding a fourth pipe to a section of the Trans-Mediterranean pipeline , expanding capacity by up to six billion cubic meters a year from 12.5 billion .
Algeria also wants to build a pipeline through Morocco and across the Strait of Gibraltar to supply Spain , France and West Germany with up to 15 billion cubic meters a year by the late 1990s .
South Africa 's National Union of Mineworkers agreed to suspend the strike by diamond workers and resume negotiations with De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. over their wage dispute , De Beers said .
The strike at five De Beers mines began last Thursday , with 9,500 out of a total 10,000 NUM members employed on De Beers mines participating , according to the union , while De Beers said there were 7,800 participants .
The union has demanded a 37.6 % increase in the minimum wage while De Beers 's final offer was an increase of 17 % .
On the Chicago Board of Trade Friday , wheat for December delivery settled at $ 4.0675 a bushel , unchanged .
In theory at least , tight supplies next spring could leave the wheat futures market susceptible to a supply-demand squeeze , said Daniel Basse , a futures analyst with AgResource Co. in Chicago .
In July , the CBOT ordered Ferruzzi Finanziaria S.p . A. to liquidate futures positions equal to about 23 million bushels of soybeans .
Unseasonably hot , dry weather across large portions of the Great Plains and in wheat-growing areas in Washington and Oregon is threatening to reduce the yield from this season 's winter wheat crop , said Conrad Leslie , a futures analyst and head of Leslie Analytical in Chicago .
For example , in the Oklahoma panhandle , 40 % or more of the topsoil is short of moisture .
In addition , Mr. DaPuzzo said computer-guided program selling of OTC stocks in the Russell Index of 2000 small stocks and the Standard & amp ; Poor 's 500-stock Index sent occasional `` waves `` through the market .
Nasdaq 's biggest stocks were hammered .
McCaw Cellular Communications , for instance , has offered to buy LIN Broadcasting as well as Metromedia 's New York City cellular telephone interests , and in a separate transaction , sell certain McCaw properties to Contel Cellular .
McCaw lost 8 % , or 3 , to 40 .
LIN Broadcasting , dropped 5 , or 5 % , to 107 .
On a day when negative takeover-related news did n't sit well with investors , Commercial Intertech , a maker of engineered metal parts , said Haas & amp ; Partners advised it that it does n't plan to pursue its previously reported $ 27.50-a-share bid to buy the company .
Commercial Intertech plummeted 6 to 26 .
On the OTC market , First Executive , a big buyer of the high-risk , high-yield issues , slid 2 to 12 .
Among other OTC issues , Intel , dropped 2 to 33 ; Laidlaw Transportation lost 1 to 19 ; the American depositary receipts of Jaguar were off 1\/4 to 10 ; MCI Communications slipped 2 to 43 ; Apple Computer fell 3 to 45 and Nike dropped 2 to 66 .
In the 1970s , several pharmaceutical and packaged-goods companies , including Colgate-Palmolive Co. , Eli Lilly & amp ; Co. , Pfizer Inc. and Schering-Plough acquired cosmetics companies .
Industry consultants say only Schering-Plough , which makes the mass-market Maybelline , has maintained a meaningful business .
Colgate , which acquired Helena Rubenstein in 1973 , sold the brand seven years later after the brand languished .
Short interest on the New York Stock Exchange declined for the second consecutive month , this time 4.2 % , while the American Stock Exchange reported its third consecutive record month of short interest .
The Big Board reported that short interest dropped to 523,920,214 shares as of Oct. 13 from 547,347,585 shares in mid-September .
Amex short interest climbed 3 % to 53,496,665 shares from 51,911,566 shares .
For the year-earlier month , the Big Board reported 461,539,056 shares , indicating a 13.5 % year-to-year rise , while the Amex reported 36,015,194 shares , a 48 % leap .
His guest appearance on the NBC soap opera `` Another World , '' scandalized musical elitists .
By contrast , he 's won kudos for his espousal of William Schuman 's `` Violin Concerto , '' which he recently recorded for Angel\/EMI along with Leonard Bernstein 's engaging `` Serenade for Violin Solo , Strings and Percussion . ''
Mr. Schuman 's `` Violin Concerto , '' which sounds more like a mildly atonal rhapsody for solo violin with orchestral accompaniment , meanders until the propulsive `` Agitato , fervente . ''
At Avery Fisher Hall here , Mr. McDuffie was heard recently with Mr. Menuhin and the Warsaw Sinfonia in more conventional fare -- Bruch 's overwrought `` Violin Concerto in G Minor . ''
Whatever he plays , Mr. McDuffie finds satisfaction in the music itself -- `` something greater out there than me , '' as he puts it during an interview at the Manhattan apartment he shares with wife , Camille , a literary publicist .
Ms. Jepson is a free-lance music writer in New York .
I was struck a couple of years ago by the drug-interdiction effort in the Bahamas .
We had intercepted during the year an estimated $ 5 billion street value of cocaine .
The GNP of the Bahamas is probably somewhere between one and two billion dollars .
The efforts to get to the people who are addicted , try to rehabilitate them ; if they can not be rehabilitated , at least to contain them ; to educate people , to strongly discourage use of drugs by people who are casual users and first users , to stop this process among the young -- all of these things I think are extremely important .
The conceptual base -- a criminal-justice approach -- is the same that I have worked through before , in the Nixon administration when I was budget director and secretary of the treasury with jurisdiction over the Customs .
In the Reagan administration we designed a comprehensive program ; we worked very hard on it .
But the stated U.S. position is detailed and specific , and the prospect of biological warfare is profoundly chilling .
The Soviets should be willing to set in motion a process that would allow them to acknowledge that Sverdlovsk violated the 1972 agreement or , alternatively , that would give U.S. specialists reasonable confidence that this was a wholly civilian accident .
Northeast Utilities raised its bid for Public Service Co. of New Hampshire , which is operating under Bankruptcy Code protection , to $ 2.25 billion from $ 1.85 billion .
Northeast 's raised bid , which was supported by PS of New Hampshire 's official shareholder committee , is a prelude to what is expected to be a round of higher bids by the other groups trying to acquire the company , the largest utility in New Hampshire .
The $ 2.25 billion value claimed by Northeast , based in Hartford , Conn. , is the highest yet given to a bid .
Under the new Northeast Utilities plan , it would pay $ 1.65 billion in cash to creditors and assume $ 100 million in pollution control bonds .
Secured creditors would recover both principal and interest , while unsecured creditors would receive only principal and interest accrued before PS of New Hampshire filed for Bankruptcy Code protection in January
The biggest change in Northeast 's offer was in improvements made for equity holders who had been given short shrift previously .
General Motors Corp. said it will temporarily idle its Arlington , Texas , assembly plant for one week beginning Monday because of slow sales .
The assembly plant builds the Cadillac DeVille , Chevrolet Caprice and Oldsmobile Cutlass Ciera Wagon .
In addition , GM 's Truck & amp ; Bus Group said slow sales are forcing it to close its Detroit assembly plant the week beginning Monday .
The No . 1 auto maker scheduled overtime this week at its Janesville , Wis. , assembly plant , manufacturer of the Chevrolet Cavalier .
The nine major U.S. auto makers plan to build 147,121 vehicles this week , down 9.6 % from the 162,767 a year ago , but 2.5 % higher than last week 's 143,534 .
Ford Motor Co. slated overtime again this week at its Wixom , Mich. ; Wayne , Mich. ; Kansas City , Mo . , and Norfolk , Va. , assembly plants .
Chrysler Corp. scheduled overtime this week at its St. Louis Assembly Plant No . 2 , Newark , Del . , and Sterling Heights , Mich. , assembly plants .
The ruling could lead to the cancellation of huge bank debts the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham ran up after losing heavily on swap transactions .
The court hearing began in early October at the request of Anthony Hazell , district auditor for Hammersmith , who argued that local councils are n't vested with constitutional authority to engage in such capital-markets activities .
Although the Hammersmith and Fulham council was by far the most active local authority engaging in such capital-markets transactions , the court decision could set a precedent for similar transactions by 77 other local councils .
`` While this court ruling was only on Hammersmith , it will obviously be very persuasive in other cases of a similar nature , '' a solicitor representing one of the banks said .
Other financial institutions involved include Barclays Bank PLC , Midland Bank PLC , Security Pacific Corp. , Chemical Banking Corp. 's Chemical Bank , Citicorp 's Citibank and Mitsubishi Finance International .
In the aftermath of the stock market 's gut-wrenching 190-point drop on Oct. 13 , Kidder , Peabody & amp ; Co. 's 1,400 stockbrokers across the country began a telephone and letter-writing campaign aimed at quashing the country 's second-largest program trader .
Their own employer , Kidder Peabody .
On one side of this power struggle stand the forces in ascendency on Wall Street -- the New Guard -- consisting of high-tech computer wizards at the major brokerage firms , their pension fund clients with immense pools of money , and the traders at the fast-growing Chicago futures exchanges .
Dallas , its economy based on oil and real estate , has been in a slump .
Exxon said it will build a new headquarters on a 132-acre tract in the 10-year-old Las Colinas complex in the suburb of Irving .
Until the building is completed , Exxon will rent part of an existing office tower .
Las Colinas , once a huge Texas ranch , is a sprawling complex of office buildings , homes and recreational facilities that its developers have been struggling to populate in recent years .
Exxon officials said it will cost less to run its headquarters at Las Colinas than in New York .
Owners of the building in New York say they will be asking $ 50 per square foot for rent to fill the space that Exxon is vacating .
Plus , one Exxon official said , by eliminating the typically long New York commutes between office and home , management will expect employees to work 40 hours a week in Dallas , rather than a 35-hour work week in New York .
The Canadian Pulp and Paper Association , an industry group , said Canadian mills produced 532,000 metric tons of market pulp in September , compared with 527,000 metric tons a year earlier .
Canada is the world 's largest producer of market pulp .
can boast of such a close-knit group , '' says Robert A. Brawer , 52 years old , recently named president , succeeding Beatrice Coleman , his mother-in-law , who remains chairman .
Mrs. Coleman , 73 , who declined to be interviewed , is the Maidenform strategist .
Its current ad campaign , on which Maidenform has spent more than $ 15 million since fall 1987 , does n't even show its underwear products , but rather men like Christopher Reeve , star of the `` Superman '' movies , talking about their lingerie turn-ons .
The Maidenform name `` is part of American pop culture , '' says Joan Sinopoli , account supervisor of the campaign by Levine , Huntley , Schmidt & amp ; Beaver , a New York ad firm .
`` The intimate apparel industry is perceived to be a growth industry and clearly { Maidenform } is a force to be reckoned with , '' says David S. Leibowitz , a special situations analyst at American Securities Corp. in New York .
Although Mr. Brawer 's appointment as president was long expected , the move on Sept. 25 precipitated the resignation of Alan Lesk as senior vice president of sales and merchandising .
Three days later , Mr. Lesk was named president and chief executive officer of Olga Co. , a competing intimate apparel division of Warnaco Inc .
On Friday , Andrew S.Grove , Intel president and chief executive officer , said `` Intel 's business is strong .
For the nine-month period , Intel reported net of $ 268.3 million , or $ 1.43 a share , down 27 % from $ 367.1 million , or $ 2.05 a share .
California legislators , searching for ways to pay for the $ 4 billion to $ 6 billion in damages from last week 's earthquake , are laying the groundwork for a temporary increase in the state 's sales tax .
The talk of a sales tax rise follows a rebuff from Congress on the question of how much the federal government is willing to spend to aid in California 's earthquake relief efforts .
The state had sought as much as $ 4.1 billion in relief , but yesterday the House approved a more general scaled-back measure calling for $ 2.85 billion in aid , the bulk of which would go to California , with an unspecified amount going to regions affected by Hurricane Hugo .
Willie Brown , speaker of California 's Assembly , said that Gov . George Deukmejian has agreed to schedule a special session of the legislature within two weeks .
California 's so-called Gann limit effectively prevents the state from spending new tax money and so drastically limits its options in an emergency .
Both Mr. Brown , the state 's most influential legislator , and Gov . Deukmejian favor a temporary sales tax increase -- should more money be needed than the state can raise from existing sources and the federal government .
Mr. Brown , meanwhile , believes `` only one tax will be feasible , and it will be a one-penny sales tax increase , '' said Chuck Dalldorf , an aide .
One immediate source of money is an emergency fund set up by Gov . Deukmejian .
They pile out of their truck and furiously begin twisting together steel pipes linking a giant storage tank to the Sharpshooter , a freshly drilled oil well two miles deep .
Independent drillers are gingerly sinking bits into the Earth 's crust again .
Mideast politics have calmed down and the squabbling within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries seems under control for now .
`` The fundamentals of supply and demand once again are setting oil prices , '' says Victor Burk , an Arthur Andersen & amp ; Co. oil expert .
The current equilibrium is fragile and depends on steady , strong demand and continued relative harmony within OPEC , producer of more than 40 % of the non-Communist world 's crude .
That in itself has got to cause people to feel a little more optimistic , '' says Glenn Cox , the president of Phillips Petroleum Co .
The same roller-coaster prices that halted U.S. oil exploration and drove many veteran oil men and companies out of the business also played havoc with the nation 's inflation rate , the trade deficit and oil users ' corporate and personal budgets .
GOLDEN WEST FINANCIAL CORP. , Oakland , savings and loan , annual revenue of $ 1.4 billion , NYSE , had only minor damage to a few branches and no injured employees .
HEWLETT-PACKARD Co. , Palo Alto , personal computer and electronic equipment maker , annual sales of $ 9.8 billion , NYSE , said there will be a `` minimal suspension '' of manufacturing for an undefined period .
The company has 18,000 employees and more than 70 buildings in the Bay area .
One building in Palo Alto may be damaged beyond repair .
HEXCEL Corp. , Dublin , manufacturer of engineered parts , annual sales of $ 399 million , NYSE , had little damage beyond some phone trouble .
HOMESTAKE MINING CO. , San Francisco , gold and general miner , annual sales of $ 432.6 million , NYSE , said its headquarters was closed yesterday because of power failures and lack of water , but that it may reopen today .
HOMESTEAD FINANCIAL CORP. , Millbrae , financial services concern , annual revenue of $ 562 million , OTC , said three of its 17 Bay-area branches were closed yesterday .
INMAC CORP. , Santa Clara , maker of computer accessories , annual sales of $ 250 million , OTC , said telephones were out at its headquarters but service should be restored by today .
INTEL Corp. , Santa Clara , semiconductor maker , annual sales of $ 2.87 billion , OTC , had some damage and few people were at work yesterday .
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES Corp , Armonk , N.Y. , maker of business machines , NYSE , said flooding caused by broken water pipes closed its San Jose plant , which makes high-end data-storage devices .
ORTEGA ENDED a truce with the Contras and said elections were threatened .
The Nicaraguan president , citing attacks by the U.S.-backed rebels , suspended a 19-month-old cease-fire and accused Bush of `` promoting death . ''
While he reaffirmed support for the country 's Feb. 25 elections , Ortega indicated that renewed U.S. military aid to the Contras could thwart the balloting .
The Contra military command , in a statement from Honduras , said Sandinista troops had launched a major offensive against the rebel forces .
East German leader Krenz called the protests in his country a `` good sign , '' saying that many of those marching for democratic freedoms were showing support for `` the renovation for socialism . ''
The Communist Party chief , in Moscow for talks with Soviet officials , also said East Germany would follow Gorbachev 's restructuring plans .
Thousands of East Germans fled to Czechoslovakia after the East Berlin government lifted travel restrictions .
OPEC has repeatedly raised its self-imposed production ceiling to legitimize some of that unauthorized output .
But `` if they walk out without any effort to resolve their problem , production could increase to 23 million or 24 million barrels a day , making for a very troublesome first quarter , '' warns Nordine Ait-Laoussine , a consultant and former Algerian OPEC delegate .
Patrick J . Early , president of Amoco Corp. 's oil-production unit , says that despite recent stability , he plans continued tightening of costs and exploration spending .
Out here on the Querecho Plains of New Mexico , however , the mood is more upbeat ; trucks rumble along the dusty roads and burly men in hard hats sweat and swear through the afternoon sun .
Santa Fe Energy Co. , a unit of Santa Fe Southern Pacific Co. , bought from Amoco the rights that allowed it to drill the Sharpshooter .
`` At this price , $ 18 plus or minus , and with costs being significantly less than they were several years ago , the economics are pretty good , '' says George Kadane , head of the company .
In the Gulf of Mexico , a boat to deliver supplies to offshore rigs now costs around $ 3,000 a day , up nearly 60 % since June .
At the bottom of the slump , Schlumberger Inc. was discounting 75 % on an electronic evaluation of a well ; now it discounts about 50 % , drillers say .
Most oil companies , when they set exploration and production budgets for this year , forecast revenue of $ 15 for each barrel of crude produced .
So , according to a Dun & amp ; Bradstreet Corp. survey , companies that had been refusing to spend even their very conservative budgets may loosen up before year end .
Although `` it 's still difficult to raise money for a pure wildcat program , '' says William Thomas , a Texas Commerce Bank official in Houston , `` institutions are starting to see there are cycles to these things , and this one is beginning to turn . ''
The appetite for oil-service stocks has been especially strong , although some got hit yesterday when Shearson Lehman Hutton cut its short-term investment ratings on them .
Contractors such as Parker Drilling Co. are raising cash again through stock offerings , and for the first time in years , two oil-service companies recently went public .
( They are Grace Energy Corp. of Dallas and Marine Drilling Co. of Houston . )
NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP. , Santa Clara , semiconductor maker , annual sales of $ 1.65 billion , NYSE , said it had no major structural damage at its 30 Bay-area buildings , but two workers were injured .
NORDSTROM INC. , Seattle , retailer , annual sales $ 2.33 billion , OTC , five of this 59-store chain 's nine stores in the Bay Area were closed yesterday , damage appears primarily cosmetic , hopes to reopen four of the stores by today and the fifth by Saturday .
ORACLE SYSTEMS CORP. , Belmont , provider of computer programming and software services , annual sales $ 584 million , four of 12 offices and buildings in the Belmont and San Mateo areas were closed , 95 % of computer and telephone systems are operating , expects to be back to full operation by the end of the week .
PACIFIC GAS & amp ; amp ; ELECTRIC CO. , San Francisco , electric , gas and water supplier , annual sales $ 7.6 billion , some minor damage to headquarters , undetermined damage to four nearby substations , severe structural damage to a major power plant at Moss Landing , extensive damage to gas lines and electric lines , 400,000 residences without electricity and 69,000 without gas , can not reconnect electricity until it is certain there are no gas leaks , no predictions on when this will happen .
PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP , San Francisco , telecommunications holding company , annual sales of $ 9.5 billion , no damage to headquarters , but no power , the power failure has caused a delay in the release of the company 's earnings report , major concern is subsidiaries , Pacific Bell and Pacific Telesis Cellular , both of which sustained damage to buildings , structural damage to several cellular sites in Santa Cruz , volume of calls on cellular phones 10 times the usual , causing a big slowdown .
PROCTER & amp ; amp ; GAMBLE CO. , Cincinnati-based company 's Folgers Coffee plant in South San Francisco was closed following the earthquake , no injuries or major damage , other plants around country can make up for any lost production .
QUANTUM CORP. , Milpitas , manufactures rigid disc drives for small business computers , word processors , annual sales $ 120.8 million , OTC , open for business , minor structural damage .
RAYCHEM CORP. , Menlo Park , plastics manufacturer , annual sales $ 1 billion , no major damage and no production slowdown is anticipated .
ROSS STORES INC. , Newark , discount apparel chain , annual sales $ 576 million , two of 28 stores in Bay Area closed , both could open as early as today .
SAFEWAY STORES INC. , Oakland , retail food chain , annual sales of $ 13.6 billion , some structural damage to headquarters and no power ; major problems transporting products to those stores that remained open ; no numbers on how many stores closed .
Beijing 's rulers complained to the former president about U.S. `` interference '' in China 's domestic affairs .
Mexico 's President Salinas said the country 's recession had ended and the economy was growing again .
In his first state of the nation address , Salinas pledged to continue his program of modernization and warned opposition politicians that impeding progress could cost them popular support .
Pakistan 's Bhutto defeated the first no-confidence motion in the nation 's 42-year history , surviving the vote that could have brought down her 11-month-old government .
The White House said the shipboard meetings next month between Bush and Soviet leader Gorbachev will take place in the waters off Malta .
The location was disclosed as the U.S. began planning the issues to be discussed at the Dec. 2-3 tete-a-tete .
Bush unveiled a package of trade initiatives to help establish `` economic alternatives to drug trafficking '' in the Andean nations of South America .
Pan Am has subpoenaed several government agencies , including the CIA and FBI , to determine whether they were warned that a bomb had been planted aboard a jet that exploded over Scotland last December , killing 270 people .
South Korea 's President Roh addressed a joint House-Senate meeting and urged patience over U.S. demands for the opening of Seoul 's markets to more American goods , saying trade issues would be `` resolved to mutual satisfaction . ''
The Census Bureau reported that 13.1 % of the U.S. population , or 31.9 million people , were living in poverty in 1988 .
Cuba was elected to the U.N. Security Council for the first time since its Castro-led revolution 30 years ago .
The election was by secret ballot in the General Assembly .
Britain 's Prime Minister Thatcher told a Commonwealth summit in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , that sanctions against South Africa were `` utterly irresponsible , '' officials said .
The move is sure to heighten concerns about increased Japanese investment in U.S. biotechnology firms .
Gen-Probe , an industry leader in the field of genetic probes , which is a new technology used in diagnostic tests , last year signed an agreement for Chugai to exclusively market its diagnostic products in Japan for infectious diseases and cancer .
Chugai agreed then to fund certain associated research and development costs .
That arrangement apparently has worked well , and Thomas A. Bologna , president and chief executive officer of Gen-Probe , founded in 1983 , said the sale of the company means `` we will be able to concentrate on running the business rather than always looking for sources of financing . ''
Chugai agreed to pay $ 6.25 a share for Gen-Probe 's 17.6 million common shares outstanding on a fully diluted basis .
Yesterday , in national trading in the over-the-counter market , Gen-Probe common closed at $ 3.25 a share .
Because the U.S. leads in most areas of biotechnology -- largely because of research investment by the U.S. government -- the sale is sure to increase concerns that Japanese companies will buy American know-how and use it to obtain the upper hand in biotechnology trade and competition . `` The biotechnology firms may be setting up their own competitors , '' said Richard Godown , president of the Industrial Biotechnology Association .
He added that until now the Japanese have only acquired equity positions in U.S. biotechnology companies .
During the past five years , Japanese concerns have invested in several of the U.S. 's 431 independent biotechnology companies .
WELLS FARGO & amp ; amp ; CO. , San Francisco , bank holding company , annual revenue $ 4.9 billion , NYSE , minor damage at headquarters , 12 branches out of 170 in Northern California sustained structural damage that will preclude them from opening in the near future , 45 locations with at least one automatic teller machine inoperable , central computer systems are operating , no injuries .
WYSE TECHNOLOGY INC. , San Jose , maker of video display terminals and workstations and IBM\/PC compatible computers , annual sales of $ 452 million , slight structural damage at headquarters , no injuries , expects to be back to full operation today .
3COM CORP. , Santa Clara , maker of computer communications systems , annual sales of $ 386 million , OTC , slight structural damage to headquarters , communications systems already fully operational .
As aftershocks shook the San Francisco Bay area , rescuers searched through rubble for survivors of Tuesday 's temblor , and residents picked their way through glass-strewn streets .
In Oakland , hopes faded for finding any more survivors within the concrete and steel from the collapse of an interstate highway .
At least 270 people were reported killed and 1,400 injured in the rush-hour tremor that caused billions of dollars of damage along 100 miles of the San Andreas fault .
Bush declared the region a major disaster area and the military was mobilized to prevent looting .
The baseball commissioner said the third game of the World Series between the Giants and the Athletics would be played Tuesday in Candlestick Park .
Glaxo was the biggest gainer , jumping 35 to # 13.78 ( $ 21.72 ) on anticipation of a stock split next week .
Total turnover in Glaxo was a thin 975,000 shares .
In Tokyo , stocks had a second-consecutive loss Monday in quiet trading with the exception of concentrated buying in some incentive-backed issues .
In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday , the Nikkei index rose 35.28 points to 35452.72 .
Investors , who took profits Friday , mostly took a wait-and-see attitude Monday amid uncertainty in the foreign-currency market and New York stocks , traders said .
Takamori Matsuda , an analyst at Dresdner-ABD Securities , said fading expectation for lower interest rates made investors step back from real-estate shares , which advanced last week .
Tokyu Group announced during the weekend that each Group company will buy the others ' stocks to defend themselves against a rumored takeover .
Tokyu Department Store advanced 260 to 2410 .
Dissident playwright Vaclav Havel reportedly escaped the crackdown , the fourth against activists in recent days .
Bush met in Washington with Spain 's Prime Minister Gonzalez and discussed what the president called `` the unique role '' that Madrid can play in furthering democracy in Eastern Europe and Latin America .
Gonzalez , who pledged to help monitor voting in Nicaragua , was said to be carrying proposals for free elections in Panama .
The Galileo spacecraft sped unerringly toward the planet Jupiter , while five astronauts aboard the space shuttle Atlantis measured the Earth 's ozone layer .
The robot probe was dispatched Wednesday by the shuttle crew , which is to conduct a series of medical and other experiments before their scheduled landing Monday in California .
Argentina and Britain agreed to resume diplomatic and economic relations , seven years after the two nations battled over the Falkland Islands .
Rebel artillerists bombarded the capital of Afghanistan , killing at least 12 people , as the Soviet Union was reported to be airlifting arms and food to Kabul 's forces .
Fighting also was reported around the strategic town of Khost , near the Pakistani border .
Saudi Arabia 's foreign minister met in Damascus with President Assad to develop a plan for the withdrawal of Syria 's 40,000 troops from Lebanon as part of a settlement of that nation 's 14-year-old civil war .
The newsletter Medicine & amp ; Health , which first disclosed her selection by Dr. Sullivan , said she is 44 years old and she studied at the University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine .
Last month , the Senate voted to send a delegation of congressional staffers to Poland to assist its legislature , the Sejm , in democratic procedures .
It is the vast shadow government of 15,000 congressional staffers that helps create such legislative atrocities as the 1,376 page , 13-pound reconciliation bill that claimed to be the budget of the United States .
Our markets were closely tied to the stock market , '' said Joel Kazis , manager of trading at Smith Barney , Harris Upham & amp ; Co .
That caused investors to flee stocks and buy high-quality Treasury bonds , which are safer than other types of securities .
But when stocks began to climb instead , prices of Treasury bonds declined .
Gillette Co. elected Warren E. Buffett , chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. , to its board , increasing the number of directors to 12 from 11 .
Berkshire Hathaway earlier this year bought $ 600 million of preferred stock in Gillette that is convertible into an 11 % stake , and Gillette said at the time that Mr. Buffett would be added to the board .
Separately , Gillette said its third-quarter earnings rose 2 % to $ 65.2 million , or 57 cents a share , from $ 63.9 million , or 57 cents a share , in the year-earlier period ; per-share earnings remained flat despite an increase in net income in part because the company paid a $ 10.4 million dividend on the new preferred stock in the period .
For the nine months , Gillette 's net income declined 1 % to $ 205.3 million , or $ 2.02 a share , from $ 207 million , or $ 1.82 a share , in the 1988 period .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , the company closed yesterday at $ 45.50 a share , up 25 cents .
Sheldon B. Lubar , chairman of Lubar & amp ; Co. , and John L. Murray , chairman of Universal Foods Corp. , were elected to the board of this engine maker .
They succeed Robert W. Kasten and John R. Parker , who reached the mandatory retirement age .
The statistical bureau 's report , cited in China Daily , notes that industrial output in September totaled $ 29.4 billion , a rise of just 0.9 % from a year earlier .
Output declined in several provinces , including Jiangsu and Zhejiang , two key coastal areas , and Sichuan , the nation 's agricultural breadbasket .
Production in Shanghai , China 's industrial powerhouse and the largest source of tax revenue for the central government , fell 1.8 % for the month .
Nationwide , output of light industrial products declined 1.8 % -- `` the first decline in 10 years , '' a bureau spokesman told China Daily .
Southam Inc. said its unprofitable weekly newspaper , The Financial Times of Canada , is up for sale .
Mr. Cole said the sale of the 77-year Financial Times , which Southam has owned since 1961 , is consistent with Southam 's strategy of cutting costs to obtain maximum profits from its operations while disposing of `` chronically under-performing '' assets .
Southam agreed to sell its 47 % stake in Selkirk Communications Ltd. , a broadcasting concern , to Maclean Hunter Ltd. for about C $ 285 million last year .
The Financial Times of Canada has no links to the British daily newspaper , The Financial Times .
The Federal Communications Commission allowed American Telephone & amp ; Telegraph Co. to continue offering discount phone services for large-business customers and said it would soon re-examine its regulation of the long-distance market .
Alfred Sikes , the new FCC chairman , championed deregulation of AT & amp ; T at his last job as head of a Commerce Department telecommunications agency .
`` It means that Sikes is serious about the deregulation of long distance , '' said Jack Grubman , a telecommunications analyst at PaineWebber Inc. , who attended the FCC meeting .
The FCC took three specific actions regarding AT & amp ; T .
By a 4-0 vote , it allowed AT & amp ; T to continue offering special discount packages to big customers , called Tariff 12 , rejecting appeals by AT & amp ; T competitors that the discounts were illegal .
Further investigation , he said , may result in further actions against Lincoln 's executives , said Mr. Seidman , `` including fraud actions . ''
Leonard Bickwit , an attorney in Washington for Mr. Keating , declined to comment on the hearings , except to say , `` We will be responding comprehensively in several forums to each of these allegations at the appropriate time . ''
Lincoln 's treatment by former thrift regulators , in an agency disbanded by the new law , has proved embarrassing for five senators who received thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from Mr. Keating .
Mr. Seidman said yesterday , for example , that Sen. Dennis DeConcini ( D. , Ariz. ) , who received $ 48,100 in contributions from Mr. Keating , phoned Mr. Seidman to request that he push for a sale of Lincoln before it would be seized .
After the government lawsuit was filed against Lincoln , Sen. DeConcini returned the campaign contributions .
Senate Banking Committee Chairman Donald Riegle ( D. , Mich . ) has also returned contributions he received from Mr. Keating a year ago .
Sens . John Glenn ( D. , Ohio ) , John McCain , ( R. , Ariz. ) and Alan Cranston ( D. , Calif. ) also received substantial contributions from Mr. Keating and sought to intervene on behalf of Lincoln .
Ms. House is vice president of Dow Jones International Group .
Mr. Wain is editor of The Asian Wall Street Journal .
Du Pont Co. , Hewlett-Packard Co. and Los Alamos National Laboratory said they signed a three-year , $ 11 million agreement to collaborate on superconductor research .
Joint-research programs have proliferated as U.S. companies seek to spread the risks and costs of commercializing new superconductors and to meet the challenges posed by foreign consortia , especially in Japan .
The latest research pact bolsters Du Pont 's growing portfolio of investments in superconductors .
The Wilmington , Del . , chemicals concern previously signed research superconductor agreements with Oak Ridge National Laboratory and with Argonne National Laboratory .
Last year , Du Pont agreed to pay $ 4.5 million for rights to superconductor work at the University of Houston .
For starters , the executives joined Mayor William H. Hudnut III for an evening of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra and a guest pianist-comedian Victor Borge .
The next morning , with a police escort , busloads of executives and their wives raced to the Indianapolis Motor Speedway , unimpeded by traffic or red lights .
A buffet breakfast was held in the museum , where food and drinks are banned to everyday visitors .
Under the stars and moons of the renovated Indiana Roof ballroom , nine of the hottest chefs in town fed them Indiana duckling mousseline , lobster consomme , veal mignon and chocolate terrine with a raspberry sauce .
Texas Instruments Japan Ltd. , a unit of Texas Instruments Inc. , said it opened a plant in South Korea to manufacture control devices .
The new plant , located in Chinchon about 60 miles from Seoul , will help meet increasing and diversifying demand for control products in South Korea , the company said .
The new letter purports to do this , saying that in addition to $ 7 a share in cash , StatesWest would offer one share of new 6 % convertible preferred stock of StatesWest it values at $ 3 a share .
It also said the cash portion of the transaction would be financed with StatesWest 's own cash and short-term investments , plus debt and other financing arranged through Hibbard Brown & amp ; Co. , the company 's investment banker .
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , Mesa closed at $ 7.25 , up 25 cents .
StatesWest asked Mesa to repond by Oct. 31 .
Mesa President Larry Risley said his board had received Stateswest 's most recent offer and was reviewing it .
One day last March , CBS Sports President Neal Pilson and Olympics superagent Barry Frank met for lunch at the Lotos Club here .
Mr. Frank told Mr. Pilson that Olympics officials wanted $ 290 million or more for TV rights to the 1994 Winter Games in Norway .
At that price , CBS was the only player at the table when negotiations with the International Olympic Committee started in Toronto Aug. 23 .
Dick Pound , a committee member , began by disclosing that ABC and NBC had refused to even bid .
And the Winter Olympics will air during the February `` sweeps , '' when ratings are used to set ad rates for local stations .
CBS will air the Super Bowl , baseball playoffs , college and pro basketball finals and other premier sports events .
`` It 's made me more committed to CBS , '' says Philip A. Jones , the president of Meredith Corp. 's broadcast group , which has two CBS affiliates .
`` In this market of 40 channels , sophisticated viewers and the remote control , trial is n't a guarantee of anything , '' ESPN 's Mr. Werner says .
Last October , during the 1988 Summer Games , NBC relentlessly pitched a new series , `` Tattingers . ''
Though CBS might move up to No . 2 in household ratings , most advertisers buy based on ratings for women aged 18 to 49 .
CBS may remain a distant No . 3 in that regard .
Yet CBS will air only 12 regular-season games , 26 fewer than ABC and NBC .
It also indicates a $ 50 million drop in ad sales for regular-season games -- a risk CBS took to get an unprecedented lock on all playoff games .
CBS signed General Motors and Toyota to be the only auto-maker sponsors in baseball for four years .
But ad executives who negotiated the deal say that works out to only $ 275,000 for a 30-second ad in the World Series through 1993 -- 17 % less than what ABC is charging for the Series this month .
Moreover , `` there 's no question ad rates will come down considerably '' from the GM-Toyota price , says Arnold Chase of Bozell Inc .
ABC lost $ 75 million on the 1988 Winter Games , partly because of its $ 309 million rights fee .
It aired 94.5 hours of mostly live events in Calgary -- helping raise ratings slightly from 1984 -- but still failed to deliver the audience promised to advertisers .
CBS will add 25 hours to that load in 1992 , and ratings could be hurt by a lack of live events .
Michael Basham , deputy assistant secretary for federal finance , said the Treasury may wait until late Monday or even early Tuesday to announce whether the autions are to be rescheduled .
Unless it can raise money in financial markets , Mr. Basham said , the federal government wo n't have the cash to pay off $ 13.8 billion in Treasury bills that mature on Thursday .
Without congressional action , the Treasury ca n't sell any new securities -- even savings bonds .
`` Each day that Congress fails to act ... will cause additional disruption in our borrowing schedule , possibly resulting in higher interest costs to the taxpayer , '' Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said in a speech prepared for delivery last night to a group of bankers .
The Treasury also said it plans to sell $ 10 billion in 36-day cash management bills on Thursday .
None of the securities will be eligible for when-issued trading until Congress approves an increase in the debt ceiling , clearing the way for a formal offering , Mr. Basham said .
CNN executives hope the headlines created by such scoops will generate excitement for its `` branded '' programs , in the way `` 60 Minutes '' did so well for CBS .
`` They 've never shown any inclination to spend money on production , '' says Michael Mosettig , a senior producer with MacNeil-Lehrer NewsHour , who notes that CNN is indispensable to his job .
CNN recently gave most employees raises of as much as 15 % , but they 're still drastically underpaid compared with the networks .
`` We would obviously be upset if those kinds of services evolved into more general-interest , long-format programming , '' says Robert Stengel , senior vice president , programming , of Continental Cablevision Inc. , which holds a 2 % stake in Turner Broadcasting .
CenTrust Savings Bank said federal thrift regulators ordered it to suspend dividend payments on its two classes of preferred stock , indicating that regulators ' concerns about the troubled institution have heightened .
In a statement , Miami-based CenTrust said the regulators cited the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent losses '' in its junk-bond portfolio in ordering the suspension of the dividends .
CBS hopes to save money by ordering fewer episodes of regular series because sports will fill up a few weeks of prime time .
Each hour of Olympics and baseball in prime time will cost CBS $ 2.6 million to $ 2.8 million ; an hour-long drama costs only $ 900,000 , and it is aired twice .
CBS may cushion losses with about $ 200 million a year in interest earned on the proceeds from selling CBS Records and other businesses .
But media-stock analyst Richard J. MacDonald of MacDonald Grippo Riely says Wall Street wo n't take kindly to that .
Toshiba Corp. said its new French marketing concern has started operating under the aegis of the company 's West German subsidiary , which formerly handled all sales of Toshiba electronic products in France .
A recent change in French law , according to Toshiba , permitted formation of the semiconductor marketing arm in Paris .
Kennametal Inc. said it intends to acquire J & amp ; L America Inc. for $ 44 million plus a consideration of as much as an additional $ 12 million , payable over five years .
Kennametal is a carbide-products and cutting-tools company .
J & amp ; L , whose principal offices are in Detroit , is a mail-order distributer of industrial tools and supplies .
Statistics from 12 countries which normally account for 94 % of non-communist Europe 's passenger car sales showed new car registrations totaled 911,606 in September , down 21 % from August and down 4.2 % for the year to date .
The average one-year savings-type CD was down to 7.99 % from 8.01 % , according to Banxquote Money Markets , a New York information service that tracks CD yields .
`` This week was uneventful for the CD market , '' said Norberto Mehl , chairman of Banxquote .
Most yields on short-term jumbo CDs , those with denominations over $ 90,000 , also moved in the opposite direction of Treasury bill yields .
The average six-month yield on a jumbo CD was at 7.90 % , down from 7.93 % , Banxquote said .
Among the major banks surveyed by Banxquote in six regions of the country , 8.33 % is the highest yield available .
Black & amp ; Decker Corp. said it agreed to sell its Bostik chemical adhesives unit to Orkem S.A. , a French chemical company , for $ 345 million .
Bostik is the first Emhart Corp. unit to be sold as part of the power-tool manufacturer 's effort to reduce debt and consolidate operations after it acquired Emhart earlier this year . Black & amp ; Decker said it plans to put other Emhart units on the block in the future , with the goal of raising $ 1 billion in net proceeds . Black & amp ; Decker rescued Emhart from the takeover bid of Topper Limited Partnership last March by agreeing to acquire the maker of door locks and gardening tools for about $ 2.8 billion .
The move significantly expanded Black & amp ; Decker 's product line , but also significantly increased its debt load .
The acquisition boosted Black & amp ; Decker 's ratio of debt to total capital to more than 80 % .
Company officials have said they plan to reduce that ratio to less than 50 % over the next 2 years . Earlier this year , Black & amp ; Decker put three Emhart businesses on the auction block : the information and electronics segment , the Dynapert electrical assembly business and Mallory Capacitors .
The three units contributed about a third of Emhart 's total sales . In addition , Black & amp ; Decker had said it would sell two other undisclosed Emhart operations if it received the right price .
Bostic is one of the previously unnamed units , and the first of the five to be sold .
The five units generated sales of about $ 1.3 billion in 1988 , almost half of Emhart 's $ 2.3 billion revenue .
Bostic posted 1988 sales of $ 255 million . `` Our divestiture program is on schedule , and we remain confident that we will achieve our stated goal of over $ 1 billion in net proceeds , '' said Nolan D. Archibald , Black & amp ; Decker 's president and chief executive officer , in a statement .
Coastal , a Houston oil and gas company , said it expects to begin operations in October 1990 .
The company said it was leasing the site of the refinery from Aruba .
Exxon Corp. built the plant but closed it in 1985 and sold off much of the equipment to dismantling contractors , from whom Coastal bought back much of the equipment .
The prime minister of Aruba has said it could cost around $ 100 million .
Coastal said the refinery 's expected daily production will include 34,000 barrels of jet fuel , 32,000 barrels of low-sulfur diesel fuel , 30,000 barrels of naphtha , 17,000 barrels of residual fuel oil , 8,000 barrels of asphalt and 25,000 barrels of low-sulfur catalytic cracker feedstock .
The establishment of the separate company , to be called Courtaulds Textiles , could be effective as early as next year 's first quarter .
Carbide , like other companies with a heavy reliance on the so-called commodity end of the chemicals industry , was expected to post earnings sharply lower than in an exceptionally strong 1988 third quarter .
`` It certainly was n't a disaster , but it does show weakness '' in some of the company 's chief markets , said George Krug , a chemicals-industry analyst at Oppenheimer & amp ; Co .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading , Carbide closed at $ 24.50 a share , down 50 cents .
Prices for polyethylene , a common plastic and an important Carbide product , started to fall early this year ; the slide accelerated in the third quarter as buyers continued to trim inventories .
Prices also fell for ethylene oxide and glycols , products used in making antifreeze .
Some producers of polyethylene , figuring the inventory reductions are near an end , have announced price boosts .
For the third quarter , operating profit from Carbide 's chemicals and plastics business fell to $ 238 million from $ 352 million a year ago , before accounting for taxes and interest expense .
Propylene glycols are used in making personal-care products such as shampoo , and urethane polyols are used in making the polyurethane foam found in furniture cushioning and other products .
Polysilicon is used in making integrated circuits .
`` I 'm the only one who said there would be an October massacre , all through late August and September , '' says Mr. Granville , once a widely followed market guru and still a well-known newsletter writer .
A quantitative analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. , Ms. Garzarelli had warned clients to take their money out of the market before the 1987 crash .
Friday 's fall marks the start of a bear market , says Mr. Davis , president of Ned Davis Research Inc .
But Mr. Davis , whose views are widely respected by money managers , says he expects no 1987-style crash .
`` It seems to me that this is the pin that has finally pricked the balloon , '' says Mr. Rogers , a professor of finance at Columbia University and former co-manager of one of the most successful hedge funds in history , Quantum Fund .
If the dollar stays weak , he says , that will add to inflationary pressures in the U.S. and make it hard for the Federal Reserve Board to ease interest rates very much .
Queens newsletter writer Francis X. Curzio actually did it : He stated in writing in September 1987 that the Dow Jones Industrial Average was likely to decline about 500 points the following month .
Stock prices `` would still have to go down some additional amount before we become positive on stocks , '' says Mr. Terrizzi , president and managing director of Renaissance Investment Management Inc. in Cincinnati .
Renaissance , which manages about $ 1.8 billion , drew stiff criticism from many clients earlier this year because it pulled entirely out of stocks at the beginning of the year and thus missed a strong rally .
Last month , Transportation Secretary Sam Skinner forced Northwest Airlines to reduce a stake held by KLM Royal Dutch Airlines .
And he has kept mum on how his decision might affect a bid for United Airlines , which includes a big stake by British Airways PLC .
Some analysts say uncertainty about Washington 's anti-takeover policy was one reason that financing for the United Airlines takeover fell through -- the event that triggered the market drop .
The 1987 crash brought the Reagan administration and Democratic lawmakers to the table for the first budget summit , resulting in a two-year plan to reduce the deficit by more than $ 76 billion -- even though the deficit actually rose by nearly $ 12 billion during that period .
`` Everybody thought we were looking at a repetition of 1929 , that we were looking at a recession , '' Rep. Panetta said yesterday in an interview .
`` There is an underlying concern on the part of the American people -- and there should be - that the administration has not gone far enough in cutting this deficit and that Congress has been unwilling to cut what the administration asked us to cut , '' said Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen ( D. , Texas ) .
Keizaikai is one of a small but growing band of Japanese companies taking their first steps into American publishing , after making major investments in entertainment , real estate and banking companies here .
Japanese concerns have retained a number of publishing consultants and media brokers to study the U.S. market , including the New York-based investment banker Veronis , Suhler & amp ; Associates .
`` Japanese publishers want to be introduced to the publishing and information industries , '' said John Veronis , chairman of Veronis Suhler .
While there are n't any major deals in the works currently on the scale of Sony Corp. 's recent $ 3.4 billion agreement to buy Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. , observers do n't rule out a transaction of that size .
In recent months , three big Tokyo-based publishing concerns -- including Nikkei Business Publications , Nikkei Home ( no relation ) , and Magazine House -- applied for membership in Magazine Publishers of America , which represents almost all U.S. consumer magazines .
When Keizaikai launched Business Tokyo in 1987 , it appealed to a more multinational audience .
The magazine was overhauled with the aid of American magazine design gurus Milton Glaser and Walter Bernard , and targets top-level U.S. executives with Japanese and American advertisers .
Visiting Nicaragua , he praised the Sandinistas for their electoral system and chided the Bush administration for not rewarding the Sandinistas .
Aid was also the gist of the talks Sen. Dodd had with Salvadoran President Alfredo Cristiani ; Mr. Cristiani 's government is very much at the mercy of U.S. largess and is forced to listen very carefully to Sen. Dodd 's likes and dislikes .
Fittingly , the Tela Accords were nicknamed by Hondurans `` the Dodd plan . ''
On Oct. 3 , following conversations with Secretary of State James Baker , Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze arrived in Managua to acclaim `` Nicaragua 's great peace efforts . ''
There , Mr. Shevardnadze felt legitimized to unveil his own peace plan : The U.S.S.R. would prolong a suspension of arms shipments to Nicaragua after the February election if the U.S. did likewise with its allies in Central America .
The Pentagon claims that in spite of Moscow 's words , East bloc weapons continue to flow into Nicaragua through Cuba at near-record levels .
Since Mr. Shevardnadze 's proposals followed discussions with Mr. Baker , speculations arose that the Bush administration was seeking an accommodation with the Soviets in Central America .
And the new syndicated `` reality '' show `` Hard Copy '' records viewers ' opinions for possible airing on the next day 's show .
`` We 've been spending a lot of time in Los Angeles talking to TV production people , '' says Mike Parks , president of Call Interactive , which supplied technology for both ABC Sports and NBC 's consumer minutes .
One of the leaders behind the expanded use of 900 numbers is Call Interactive , a joint venture of giants American Express Co. and American Telephone & amp ; Telegraph Co .
Formed in August , the venture weds AT & amp ; T 's newly expanded 900 service with 200 voice-activated computers in American Express 's Omaha , Neb . , service center .
Other long-distance carriers have also begun marketing enhanced 900 service , and special consultants are springing up to exploit the new tool .
Blair Entertainment , a New York firm that advises TV stations and sells ads for them , has just formed a subsidiary -- 900 Blair -- to apply the technology to television .
The use of 900 toll numbers has been expanding rapidly in recent years .
The cost of a 900 call is set by the originator -- ABC Sports , for example -- with the cheapest starting at 75 cents .
NBC 's `` On-Line '' consumer minutes have increased advertiser spending during the day , the network 's weakest period .
Each weekday matches a sponsor and a topic : On Mondays , Unilever N.V. 's Lever Bros. sponsors tips on diet and exercise , followed by a 30-second Lever Bros. commercial .
Viewers can call a 900 number for additional advice , which will be tailored to their needs based on the numbers they punch ( `` Press one if you 're pregnant , '' etc . ) .
Diane Seaman , an NBC-TV vice president , says NBC has been able to charge premium rates for this ad time .
Mr . Parks of Call Interactive says TV executives are considering the use of 900 numbers for `` talk shows , game shows , news and opinion surveys . ''
`` Hard Copy , '' the new syndicated tabloid show from Paramount Pictures , will use its 900 number for additional purposes that include research , says executive producer Mark B. von S. Monsky .
But Mr. Monsky sees much bigger changes ahead .
Lockheed Corp. -- $ 300 million of 9 % notes due Oct. 15 , 1999 , priced at 99.90 to yield 9.39 % .
The issue was priced at a spread of 137.5 basis points above the Treasury 's 10-year note .
Rated single-A-3 by Moody 's Investors Service Inc. and single-A by Standard & amp ; Poor 's Corp. , the issue will be sold through underwriters led by Goldman , Sachs & amp ; Co .
California Health Facilities Financing Authority -- $ 144.35 million of revenue bonds for Kaiser Permanente , due 19931999 , 2004 , 2008 , 2018 and 2019 , tentatively priced by a PaineWebber Inc. group to yield from 6.25 % in 1993 to 7.227 % in 2018 .
The bonds are rated double-A-2 by Moody 's and double-A by S & amp ; P , according to the lead underwriter .
Pennsylvania Higher Education Facilities Authority -- approximately $ 117 million of revenue bonds for Hahnemann University , Series 1989 , due 1990-2002 , 2009 and 2019 , priced late Monday by a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets group to yield from 6 % in 1990 to 7.282 % in 2019 .
The bonds are insured and rated triple-A by Moody 's and S & amp ; P .
Connecticut -- $ 100.4 million of general obligation capital appreciation bonds , College Savings Plan , 1989 Series B , priced by a Prudential-Bache Capital Funding group .
The bonds have received a rating of double-A-1 from Moody 's , and a double-A-plus rating is expected from S & amp ; P , the underwriter said .
The New York Stock Exchange said a seat sold for $ 436,000 , down $ 39,000 from the previous sale Oct. 4 .
Exchange seats hit a peak of $ 1,150,000 in September 1987 .
AVX Corp. and Unitrode Corp. said they completed the previously reported sale of Unitrode 's San Diego-based Passive Components division to AVX .
AVX , a New York-based maker of passive electronic products , paid $ 11 million in cash to Unitrode , a Lexington-based maker of semiconductor products .
Passive Components makes capacitors and filters used to protect electronics .
House leaders had hoped to follow the Senate 's lead by getting an agreement from House committee chairmen under which they would drop items that would n't reduce the fiscal 1990 budget deficit from the House-passed bill before the negotiations with the Senate began .
`` Many members feel there are important features of the House bill that should be enacted , '' Speaker Thomas Foley ( D. , Wash . ) said .
Mr. Jobs moved to remedy a couple of his computer 's drawbacks yesterday by lowering the entry-level price for a Next machine by $ 1,500 , or 23 % , if the buyer chooses a hard-disk drive as an alternative to Next 's optical-storage device .
The hard drive , which is the storage device of choice for virtually every desktop computer user , also now will supplement Next 's futuristic optical device if buyers pay full price .
Mr. Jobs , co-founder of Apple Computer Inc. , founded Next four years ago in the hopes of fomenting a revolution in the way desktop computers are designed and used .
His Next computer , introduced about a year ago and aimed primarily at university computer users , sports snazzy graphics , digital sound , built-in networking and a sleek black design .
Universities can now buy a Next computer without an optical storage device for $ 4,995 .
Another factor was that customers were asking , `` Why do n't you give us a cheaper system ? '' Mr. Jobs said at a conference on university computing here .
To get around the delays caused by the optical device , Businessland , which is Next 's exclusive dealer to corporations , has for months been advising customers to purchase hard drives with the machines .
HomeFed Corp. said its main subsidiary , Home Federal Savings & amp ; Loan , converted from a federal savings and loan to a federal savings bank and changed its name to HomeFed Bank .
The federal Office of Thrift Supervision approved the conversion last Friday , HomeFed said .
A new Gallup Poll study commissioned by the New York Business Group on Health , found that a full 25 % of the work force at companies may suffer from anxiety disorders or a stress-related illness , with about 13 % suffering from depression .
It is one of a series of studies on health commissioned by the New York Business Group , a non-profit organization with about 300 members .
The stress study was undertaken because problems related to stress `` are much more prevalent than they seem , '' said Leon J. Warshaw , executive director of the business group .
Occupational disability related to anxiety , depression and stress costs about $ 8,000 a case in terms of worker 's compensation .
In terms of days lost on the job , the study estimated that each affected employee loses about 16 work days a year because of stress , anxiety or depression .
In reaffirming the current monetary policy of using high interest rates to fight inflation and shore up the pound , Mr. Lawson dismissed other approaches to managing the economy .
Mr. Lawson 's speech , delivered at the Lord Mayor of London 's annual dinner at Mansion House , came on the heels of a grueling period for the U.K. economy .
It was quoted at 2.9428 marks in late New York trading Wednesday .
Meanwhile , average earnings in Britain were up 8.75 % in August over the previous year .
In a separate speech prepared for delivery at the dinner , Robin Leigh-Pemberton , Bank of England governor , conceded that `` demand pressures were even more buoyant than had been appreciated '' when the British economy was heating up last year .
Specifically , he pointed out that compared with the U.S. market , the U.K. has far fewer highly leveraged junk-bond financings .
Discussing future monetary arrangements , Mr. Lawson repeated the Thatcher government 's commitment to join the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System , but he did n't indicate when .
Colgate Palmolive Co. reported third-quarter net income rose 27 % , bolstered by strong sales in its Latin American business and surprisingly healthy profits from U.S. operations .
For the nine months , Jefferies said net fell 39 % , to $ 6.8 million , or $ 1.07 a share , from $ 11.1 million , or $ 1.50 a share .
Sony Corp. , New York , said its bids for Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. and Guber-Peters Entertainment Co. have been cleared by federal antitrust regulators .
The Japanese company said the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust act for the $ 3.4 billion bid for Columbia and the $ 200 million offer for Guber-Peters expired Monday .
Sony has agreed to buy both companies , but is in a legal battle with Warner Communications Inc. over the services of producers Peter Guber and Jon Peters .
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Sony also said two more suits have been filed opposing the company 's agreement to buy Columbia .
Sony added that a hearing has been set for Thursday in the Delaware Chancery Court in one of the suits .
LOTUS DEVELOPMENT Corp. 's net income rose 61 % in the third quarter from the year-earlier period .
VIACOM Inc. 's loss narrowed to $ 21.7 million in the third quarter from $ 56.9 million a year ago .
Coastal Corp. said it signed a definitive agreement with Aruba to restart a 150,000-barrel-a-day oil refinery .
Coastal would n't disclose the terms .
Many U.S. trading operations , wanting to keep a watchful eye on Japanese trading as an indication of where U.S. trading would begin , were fully staffed during the Tokyo trading session . `` Most of the action was during the night session , '' said Michael Moore , trading manager at Continental Bank .
Jay Goldinger , who often trades overnight for Capital Insight Inc. , Beverly Hills , Calif. , said trading in Tokyo was `` very active '' but highly volatile .
In Tokyo , trading is halted during lunchtime .
Tokyo 's market turned out to be a bad bellwether for U.S. trading .
The bond market 's focus on stock activity was so strong yesterday that it overshadowed today 's slate of economic data , which includes the government 's report on August U.S. merchandise trade and September industrial production .
Industrial production is expected to have declined 0.2 % , according to a consensus of economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report .
Meanwhile , agency supply is expected to weigh heavily on the market today when the Federal Home Loan Bank prices a $ 2.3 billion offering of one-year , three-year , five-year and 10-year maturities .
Tomorrow , the Resolution Funding Corp. will provide details of its first bond issue , which is expected to total between $ 4 billion and $ 6 billion and carry a maturity greater than 20 years .
Resolution Funding is a division of Resolution Trust Corp. , the new federal agency created to bail out the nation 's troubled thrifts .
Critics say Mitsubishi Estate 's decision to buy into Rockefeller reflects the degree to which companies are irritated by the pressure to act for the good of Japan .
`` Those who have no money and are n't buying think it 's right to refrain , but those with money who want to buy for themselves pay no attention , '' says an official of the Japan-U.S . Business Council .
First of all , it is a friendly acquisition in which Rockefeller sought out Mitsubishi Estate and asked it to buy a majority share .
Finally , Mitsubishi Estate has no plans to interfere with Rockefeller 's management beyond taking a place on the board .
`` We 'll continue to work with them , in keeping with the reputation of the company , and we 'll rely very much on their leadership , '' says Mitsubishi Estate President Jotaro Takagi .
In asset terms , Mitsubishi Estate is the largest real estate firm in Japan .
The core of its holdings is 190,000 square meters of incredibly expensive property in the Marunouchi district , the business and financial center of Tokyo , often jokingly called `` Mitsubishi Village . ''
The Mitsubishi family company acquired that property from the government some 100 years ago when it was a portion of samurai residential land running from the moat of the Imperial Palace east toward the hodgepodge of tiny shops and twisted alleys that made up the merchants ' district .
Moreover , as a member of the Mitsubishi group , which is headed by one of Japan 's largest banks , it is sure to win a favorable loan .
Meanwhile , at home , Mitsubishi has control of some major projects .
It is the largest private-sector landowner of the Minato-Mirai 21 project , a multibillion-yen development in the port city of Yokohama , about an hour outside Tokyo .
The project is one of a select group of public projects opened to U.S. firms under a U.S.-Japan construction trade agreement reached last year .
The centerpiece of that complex , the Landmark Tower , will be Japan 's tallest building when it is completed in 1993 .
Mitsubishi is also pushing ahead with a controversial plan to redevelop Marunouchi into a business center of high-tech buildings , a project budgeted for 30 years and six trillion yen .
Southern Co. 's Gulf Power Co. subsidiary pleaded guilty to two felony charges of conspiracy to make illegal political contributions and tax evasion , and paid $ 500,000 in fines .
Gulf Power 's guilty plea before U.S. District Judge Robert L. Vining yesterday marks the end of only one part of a wide-ranging inquiry of Southern Co .
`` The terms announced today are strictly between the United States and Gulf Power , '' said U.S. Attorney Robert L. Barr .
In an interview at the time of his resignation from MCA , he said : `` I 'd rather build a company than run one .
A San Francisco lawyer , Mr. Panelli rowed religiously when he first got the machine , but , he complains , it left grease marks on his carpet , `` and it was boring .
Nearly three-fourths of the people who own home exercise equipment do n't use it as much as they planned , according to The Wall Street Journal 's `` American Way of Buying '' survey .
The Roper Organization , which conducted the survey , said almost half of the exercise equipment owners found it duller than they expected .
Fewer people said they were working up a sweat with such activities as jogging , tennis , swimming and aerobics .
For instance , sales of treadmills , exercise bikes , stair climbers and the like are expected to rise 8 % to about $ 1.52 billion this year , according to the National Sporting Goods Association , which sees the home market as one of the hottest growth areas for the 1990s .
But even that group knows some people do n't use their machines as much as they should . `` The first excuse is they do n't have enough time , '' says research director Thomas Doyle .
But fully 90 % of those polled felt they did n't need to belong to a health club . `` They 're too crowded , and everybody 's showing off , '' says Joel Bryant , a 22-year-old student from Pasadena , Calif .
Even so , the Association of Quality Clubs , a health-club trade group in Boston , says membership revenues will rise about 5 % this year from last year 's $ 5 billion .
The proprietor of Sante West , an aerobics studio in San Francisco 's Marina district , which was hit hard by the earthquake , says , `` People were going nuts the minute we opened , '' three days after the quake .
But not Richard Cottrell , a San Francisco cab driver who bowls in two weekly leagues .
His Tuesday night team , the Leftovers , is in first place .
The question is at the root of a brawl between Humana Inc. , the big for-profit hospital and insurance company , and its not-for-profit brethren in its home state of Kentucky .
But record industry executives familiar with the talks said Mr. Azoff and Warner came to an agreement yesterday to form a 50-50 joint-venture company funded by Warner and run by Mr. Azoff .
Among other things , they said , Mr. Azoff would develop musical acts for a new record label .
The agreement is said to be similar to Warner 's 50-50 partnership with record and movie producer David Geffen , whose films and records are distributed by the Warner Bros. studio and the Warner records unit .
Although Mr. Azoff wo n't produce films at first , it is possible that he could do so later , the sources said .
Like Mr. Geffen 's arrangement , the venture gives Mr. Azoff a link to the world 's largest and most successful record distributor ; in the U.S. alone , Warner has a 40 % share of the market , about double its nearest competitor , Sony Corp. 's CBS Records .
For Warner , meanwhile , it gives the company a second young partner with a finger on the pulse of the hottest trends in the music business .
The 41-year-old Mr. Azoff , a former rock 'n ' roll manager , is credited with turning around MCA 's once-moribund music division in his six years at the company .
But Mr. Azoff had been negotiating for more than a year to get out of his MCA contract , which expired in 1991 .
Mr. Azoff reportedly was bored and frequently clashed with top MCA management over a number of issues such as compensation and business plans .
Mr. Azoff also was eager to return to a more entrepreneurial role in which he had a big financial stake in his own efforts .
And 81 % preferred a group practice or health maintenance organization , while just 11 % favored solo practice . `` Ten years ago , a physician would go to a town and take out a loan ( to start a practice ) , '' says James Merritt , president of Merritt , Hawkins & amp ; Associates , an Irvine , Calif. , physician recruiter that conducted the survey .
The numbers behind such fears : The average debt of medical school graduates who borrowed to pay for their education jumped 10 % to $ 42,374 this year from $ 38,489 in 1988 , says the Association of American Medical Colleges .
Money is n't the only reason for the shift in practice preferences . It reflects values of a generation that wants more time for families and personal interests , says John H. Moxley III , who directs physician-executive searches for Korn\/Ferry International .
WHEN Catherine Bobar spent several weeks at the Medical Center of Vermont recently with a bone infection in her toe , she shared a room just like most patients .
The 12-bed `` cooperative care '' unit is one of about 18 nationwide where a family member or friend helps care for a patient in the hospital . `` The philosophy is to make the patient and the family very responsible for a portion of their own care , '' says Anthony J. Grieco , medical director of cooperative care at New York University Medical Center , where the concept began 10 years ago .
Because patients require less attention from nurses and other staff , room charges are lower -- about $ 100 less per day than a regular room at the Vermont hospital .
Cancer patients needing prolonged radiation therapy , diabetics learning to manage their blood sugar levels , and cardiac bypass patients are among those who spend time on cooperative-care units .
The approach has generated so much interest that NYU is host to the first conference on cooperative care Nov. 30 .
Japan ranks as only the fourth largest foreign investor in Mexico , with 5 % of the total investments .
That is just 1 % of all the money Japan has invested abroad .
Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari would like to change that .
The young president so admires Japanese discipline that he sends his children to a Japanese school in Mexico City .
But Mexico urgently needs more help .
Mr. Salinas 's unpopular Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI , faces congressional elections in 1991 .
For the PRI to stand a chance , Mr. Salinas has to press on with an economic program that so far has succeeded in lowering inflation and providing moderate economic growth .
Mr. Salinas needs big investment inflows -- quickly .
The problem is that Japanese businesses make decisions with a view well beyond the coming months that weigh so heavily on Mr. Salinas .
`` The Japanese will come to Mexico , but not immediately , '' says Kazushige Suzuki , director-general of the Japanese External Trade Organization in Mexico .
The discount rate , currently 7 % , is the rate the Fed charges member banks for loans , using government securities as collateral .
Bolstering his argument , the Commerce Department reported yesterday that new home sales for September were down 14 % from August 's revised 3.1 % fall .
Several other European central banks , notably in Britain , followed the West German Bundesbank 's lead by raising their own key rates .
And a week later , Japan raised its official discount rate by a half point to 3.75 % .
After a surprisingly sharp widening in the U.S. August merchandise trade deficit -- $ 10.77 billion from a revised $ 8.24 billion in July and well above expectations -- and a startling 190-point drop in stock prices on Oct. 13 , the Federal Reserve relaxed short-term interest rates , knocking fed funds from around 9 % to 8 % .
But predictions that central banks of the Group of Seven ( G-7 ) major industrial nations would continue their massive dollar sales went astray , as the market drove the dollar downward on its own , reacting to Wall Street 's plunge and subsequent price volatility , lower U.S. interest rates and signs of a slowing U.S. economy .
G-7 consists of the U.S. , Japan , Britain , West Germany , Canada , France and Italy .
Five years of rapid expansion under American Brands , with an emphasis on marketing the agency 's services instead of improving them , had hurt Pinkerton 's profits , Mr. Wathen claims .
Pinkerton 's had locked itself into low-price contracts to win new business , with no hope of profitability until the contracts expired , he adds .
American Brands declined to comment on Mr. Wathen 's accusations .
The acquisition combined the country 's second-largest security company , Pinkerton 's , with 1987 sales of $ 410 million , and the fourth largest , California Plant Protection , with $ 250 million in sales , creating the industry 's biggest firm , which took on the Pinkerton 's name .
Even after divesting itself of $ 120 million of unprofitable business , the new Pinkerton 's will have sales of about $ 610 million this year and operating profit roughly double the industry average of 2 % -3 % of sales , says Lloyd Greif of Sutro & amp ; Co. in Los Angeles , which arranged the Pinkerton 's acquisition .
He shut down the company 's tony New York headquarters .
Pinkerton 's world headquarters today is a nondescript , two-story office building across the street from the small Van Nuys Airport .
Next , Mr. Wathen raised Pinkerton 's rates , which were 75-cents-an-hour lower than California Plant Protection 's average rate of around $ 8.63 .
Mr. Wathen , who says Pinkerton 's had a loss of nearly $ 8 million in 1987 under American Brands , boasts that he 's made Pinkerton 's profitable again .
In the wake of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson 's surprise resignation and sterling 's subsequent nose-dive , most analysts had little good to say about the pound 's near-term prospects .
Mr. Owen of Kleinwort Benson suggested that the new chancellor , John Major , will take a tough line in his autumn statement later this month , helping to underpin the pound .
On the Commodity Exchange in New York , gold for current delivery dropped $ 3.10 to $ 374.70 an ounce in moderate trading .
In early trading in Hong Kong Wednesday , gold was quoted at $ 373.80 an ounce .
Christopher Hill in Tokyo , Nicholas Hastings in London , Erik Kirschbaum in Frankfurt and Caitlin Randall and Douglas Appell in New York contributed to this article .
When Thomas W. Wathen went big league last year , he acquired a treasure-trove of Americana along with a well-known but ailing security business : Pinkerton 's Inc .
There was a wanted poster offering `` Rewards for the Arrest of Express and Train Robbers Frank James and Jesse W. James '' and the original Pinkerton 's logo with an open eye and the inscription `` We Never Sleep , '' which inspired the phrase `` private eye . ''
Then there were two gold watches once owned by Allan Pinkerton , who founded the company in Chicago in 1850 .
Mesa flies to 42 cities in New Mexico , Arizona , Wyoming , Colorado and Texas .
Georgia-Pacific 's $ 3.18 billion bid for Great Northern Nekoosa helped drive the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 41.60 points , to 2645.08 , in active trading .
Analysts said the offer for Great Northern Nekoosa broke the pall that settled over the takeover business for the past three weeks in the wake of the collapsed UAL Corp . buy-out .
Great Northern Nekoosa soared $ 20.125 a share , to $ 62.875 , substantially above the $ 58 a share Georgia-Pacific is offering .
Prices of other paper makers rose sharply , although Georgia-Pacific fell $ 2.50 a share , to $ 50.875 .
Unless the Federal Reserve eases interest rates soon to stimulate the economy , profits could remain disappointing .
A report late yesterday that the Chicago-area purchasing managers survey showed increased economic activity in that part of the country cut into bond-price gains .
Although the Treasury is expected to announce details of its November quarterly refunding operation today , the Nov. 79 schedule could be delayed unless Congress and the president act soon to lift the nation 's debt ceiling .
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange totaled 176.1 million shares .
Advancing issues on the Big Board surged ahead of decliners 1,111 to
Some banks are already moving in that direction , according to Alvin T. Sale , marketing director at First Union Corp. in Charlotte .
First Union , he says , now has packages for seven customer groups .
Troubled NBI Inc. said it fired more than half its work force and is discontinuing its hardware business to focus on its software and service operations .
Altogether , NBI said it will eliminate 266 jobs at its Boulder headquarters , 176 field sales jobs and 50 jobs at its Canadian and United Kingdom headquarters .
Stephen G. Jerritts , president and chief executive officer , said customers were n't willing to commit to an expensive NBI hardware systems because of the company 's financial troubles .
The company currently offers a word-processing package for personal computers called Legend .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , NBI common closed at 93 cents a share , up 31 cents .
Although investigations now account for only about 5 % of Pinkerton 's total revenue , that side of the business has traditionally been the more `` glamorous '' of the two and it carries historical and sentimental value .
( Author Dashiell Hammett , who wrote `` The Maltese Falcon , '' was a former Pinkerton 's detective . )
Paramount Communications Inc. , New York , completed the sale of its Associates Corp. consumer and commercial finance subsidiary to a unit of Ford Motor Co. for $ 3.35 billion .
Paramount , which agreed to sell the unit in July , said it would realize net proceeds from the sale of $ 2.6 billion , with an after-tax gain of $ 1.2 billion .
Paramount said the gain would be recorded in its fourth quarter , which ended yesterday .
Paramount said the sale `` completes the strategic restructuring '' it began in 1983 , and would enable it to focus on its entertainment and publishing businesses .
Ford said in July it planned to operate Associates , based in Dallas , as a separate entity in its Ford Financial Services Group .
Paramount said Associates has about $ 14 billion in total assets , making it third-largest in terms of assets among independent finance companies in the U.S. .
William Tait , a former sales manager in Indianapolis , says that his office had all but sold a $ 1.5 million image system to pharmaceutical maker Eli Lilly & amp ; Co .
He is now president of Eastate Homes Inc. , an Indianapolis contractor .
Brian Petre , a former Wang salesman in upstate New York , says : `` You have pride in your job .
`` The problem is , if people get down in the dumps , they stop selling , '' says Mike Durcan , a laid-off sales manager in Wang 's Austin office .
Paul Hellman , a Framingham , Mass . , sales and management consultant and author of `` Ready , Aim , You 're Hired , '' says : `` The bad news is , you 'll be rejected more .
But Mr. Miller , Wang 's new president , recently warned his salespeople about negativism .
Spain 's most popular mini-series this year was `` Juncal , '' the story of an aging bullfighter .
`` The trend is pretty well established now that local programs are the most popular , with American programs second , '' says Brian Wenham , a former director of programs for the British Broadcasting Corp .
Thus , Europe has begun the recent crusade to produce more worthy shows of its own , programs with broader appeal .
`` We 've basically got to start from scratch , to train writers and producers to make shows that other people will want to see , '' concedes Colin Young , head of Britain 's National Film Theatre School .
Until recently , national governments in Europe controlled most of the air time and allowed little or no advertising .
Just last week , Greece authorized two commercial channels for the first time ; Spain earlier began to allow commercial television alongside its state channels .
Sky Channel , a British-based venture of Australian-American press tycoon Rupert Murdoch , offers what must be a baffling cultural mix to most of its audience .
In the hands of a zealot like Lenny Bruce , this double-edged blade could cut both the self and the audience to ribbons .
But wielded by a pro like Jackie Mason , it is a constructive form of mischief .
As Elizabeth Kristol wrote in the New York Times just before the Mason donnybrook , `` Perhaps intolerance would not boil over with such intensity if honest differences were allowed to simmer . ''
The question is , if group conflicts still exist ( as undeniably they do ) , and if Mr. Mason 's type of ethnic humor is passe , then what other means do we have for letting off steam ?
It is true that the best sitcoms do allow group differences to simmer : yuppies vs. blue-collar Bostonians in `` Cheers '' ; children vs. adults in `` The Cosby Show . ''
In `` Chicken Soup , '' Mr. Mason plays Jackie , a Jewish bachelor courting Maddie ( Lynn Redgrave ) , an Irish widow and mother of three , against the wishes of his mother ( Rita Karin ) and her brother Michael ( Brandon Maggart ) .
At least , they both speak with strong accents , as do Jackie and Maddie .
It could n't be more obvious that `` Chicken Soup '' is being made from an old recipe .
Back in the 1920s , the play and movie versions of `` Abie 's Irish Rose '' made the theme of courtship between the assimilated offspring of Jewish and Irish immigrants so popular that its author , Anne Nichols , lost a plagiarism suit on the grounds that the plot has entered the public domain .
And it has remained there , as evidenced by its reappearance in a 1972 CBS sitcom called `` Bridget Loves Bernie , '' whose sole distinction was that it led to the real-life marriage of Meredith Baxter and David Birney .
Daniel Akerson , MCI chief financial officer , said the company sees further improvements in operating margins .
In national over-the-counter trading , MCI fell $ 2.625 to $ 42.375 .
Charles Schellke , an analyst with Smith Barney , Harris Upham & amp ; Co. , said some investors apparently expected slightly better revenue growth .
The company said that residential traffic grew faster than business traffic and attributed that to its new PrimeTime calling plan that competes with American Telephone & amp ; Telegraph 's Reach Out America plan .
MCI claims about 12 % of the overall long-distance telephone market but just under 10 % of the $ 23 billion residential market .
Mr. Akerson said MCI recorded `` another solid cash positive quarter , '' its fourth in a row , but declined to comment on whether the company is considering a dividend or is planning any acquisition .
Southwestern Bell Corp. said net dropped 8.7 % , mainly the result of four extraordinary items : a franchise tax refund that its Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. unit received last year ; a production shift of several Yellow Pages directories to the fourth quarter from the third ; a rate refund in Missouri and a one-time adjustment to phone company revenues .
Chairman Zane E. Barnes said Southwestern Bell 's `` businesses are healthy and are continuing to grow . ''
Interprovincial transports about 75 % of all crude produced in western Canada , and almost 60 % of Interprovincial 's total volume consists of light crude .
Nearly all of the crude oil that Canada exports to the U.S. is transported on Interprovincial 's system , whose main line runs from Edmonton to major U.S. and Canadian cities in the Great Lakes region , including Chicago , Buffalo , Toronto and Montreal .
Canada 's current oil exports to the U.S. total about 600,000 barrels a day , or about 9.1 % of net U.S. crude imports , said John Lichtblau , president of the New York-based Petroleum Industry Research Foundation .
That ranks Canada as the fourth-largest source of imported crude , behind Saudi Arabia , Nigeria and Mexico .
Mr. Lichtblau said Canada 's declining crude output , combined with the fast-shrinking output of U.S. crude , will help intensify U.S. reliance on oil from overseas , particularly the Middle East .
Mr. Lichtblau stressed that the delay of Interprovincial 's proposed expansion wo n't by itself increase U.S. dependence on offshore crude , however , since Canadian imports are limited in any case by Canada 's falling output .
Under terms of its proposed two-step expansion , which would have required regulatory approval , Interprovincial intended to add 200,000 barrels a day of additional capacity to its system , beginning with a modest expansion by 1991 .
Of all the ethnic tensions in America , which is the most troublesome right now ?
A good bet would be the tension between blacks and Jews in New York City .
Or so it must seem to Jackie Mason , the veteran Jewish comedian appearing in a new ABC sitcom airing on Tuesday nights ( 9:30 -10 p.m. EDT ) .
`` It would have severe implications for Farmers ' policy holders . ''
To fend off Sir James 's advances , B.A.T has proposed a sweeping restructuring that would pare it to a tobacco and financial services concern .
Dismal sales at General Motors Corp. dragged the U.S. car and truck market down below year-ago levels in early October , the first sales period of the 1990 model year .
This appears particularly true at GM , which had strong sales in August and September but saw its early October car and truck results fall 26.3 % from last year 's unusually high level .
Without GM , overall sales for the other U.S. automakers were roughly flat with 1989 results .
`` We 've created a condition where , without incentives , it 's a tough market , '' said Tom Kelly , sales manager for Bill Wink Chevrolet in Dearborn , Mich .
GM 's domestic car sales dropped 24.3 % and its domestic trucks were down an even steeper 28.7 % from the same period a year ago .
All of the GM divisions except Cadillac showed big declines .
Cadillac posted a 3.2 % increase despite new competition from Lexus , the fledging luxury-car division of Toyota Motor Corp .
BULL HN INFORMATION SYSTEMS Inc. is a U.S. majority-owned unit of Cie. des Machines Bull .
Axa-Midi Assurances of France gave details of its financing plans for its proposed $ 4.5 billion acquisition of Farmers Group Inc. , in amended filings with insurance regulators in the nine U.S. states where Farmers operates .
The proposed acquisition is part of Sir James Goldsmith 's unfriendly takeover attempt for B.A.T Industries PLC , the British tobacco , retailing , paper and financial services concern that is parent of Los Angeles-based Farmers .
In an attempt to appease U.S. regulators ' concern over a Goldsmith acquisition of Farmers , Sir James in August agreed to sell Farmers to Axa if he is successful in acquiring B.A.T .
As part of the agreement , Axa agreed to invest $ 1 billion in Hoylake Investments Ltd. , Sir James 's acquisition vehicle .
Of the total $ 5.5 billion to be paid to Hoylake by Axa , about $ 1 billion will come from available resources of Axa 's parent , Axa-Midi Group , $ 2.25 billion will be in the form of notes issued by Axa , and the remaining $ 2.25 billion will be in long-term bank loans .
In an interview Thursday , Claude Bebear , chairman and chief executive officer of Axa , said his group has already obtained assurances from a group of banks led by Cie . Financiere de Paribas that they can provide the loan portion of the financing .
The other banking companies in the group are Credit Lyonnais , Societe Generale , BankAmerica Corp. and Citicorp , he said .
Mr. Bebear said Axa-Midi Group has `` more than $ 2.5 billion of non-strategic assets that we can and will sell '' to help pay off debt from the acquisition .
In May 1988 , the Working Group , made up of representatives from the Federal Reserve , the Treasury , the Securities and Exchange Commission , and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission , finally endorsed only circuit breakers .
-- If S & amp ; P futures fall 5 points at opening , contract trading pauses for 10 minutes .
-- If Dow Industrials fall 25 points at opening , contract trading pauses for 10 minutes .
On NYSE program trades are diverted into a separate computer file to determine buy and sell orders .
-- If S & amp ; P futures fall 30 points , trading is restricted for an hour to that price or higher .
-- If Dow Industrials fall 250 points , trading on the Big Board halts for an hour .
S & amp ; P and MMI contracts also halt .
-- If DJIA drops 400 points , Big Board halts trading for two hours .
Trading in MMI and S & amp ; P futures also halted .
The statue is the brainchild of Sik Chi Wan , director of the Po Lin Monastery , who said : `` Hong Kong is such a prosperous place , we also need some kind of religious symbol .
Mexican investor Joel Rocha Garza said he sold a block of 600,000 shares of Smith Laboratories Inc. common stock to companies affiliated with him .
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Mr. Rocha Garza said Biscayne Syndicate Inc. , Lahus II Inc. , and Lahus III Inc. bought the 600,000 shares on Oct. 11 for $ 1.4 million , or $ 2.375 a share .
Mr. Rocha Garza said that he , Clarendon Group Ltd. , Biscayne , Lahus II , and Lahus III are all affiliated and hold a combined stake of 1,234,100 shares , or 9.33 % .
Mr. Rocha Garza has said he wants to purchase more shares .
In San Diego , Smith Laboratories President Timothy Wollaeger said the transfer of the shares is n't significant .
Genentech Inc. said the West German distributor of its heart drug TPA reached a joint marketing agreement with a subsidiary of Hoechst AG , which makes the rival anti-clotting agent streptokinase .
The biotechnology concern said the agreement between its longtime West German distributor , Boehringer-Ingleheim 's Dr. Karl Thomae G.m.b.H . subsidiary , and Hoechst 's Behringwerke subsidiary was an attempt to expand the market for blood-clot drugs in general .
A Genentech spokeswoman said the agreement calls for Hoechst to promote TPA for heart patients and streptokinase for other clot-reducing purposes .
Dataproducts Inc. said it filed a lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court to block a tender offer by DPC Acquisition Partners , alleging that the hostile offer violates a standstill agreement between the two concerns .
Before the union rejected the company 's offer and the strike was launched with the graveyard shift of Oct. 4 , Boeing had been counting on turning 96 aircraft out the door in the present period .
That included 21 of the company 's 747-400 jumbo jets , its most successful product . `` It 's not a pretty picture , '' said David Smith , an analyst with Raymond James & amp ; Associates .
Phillip Brannon of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets added : `` You do n't want to minimize this and say nobody is looking at it .
That 's the primary reason the company 's share price has held up so well when , in Mr. Smith 's words , `` most companies would have unraveled '' by now .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading , Boeing closed yesterday at $ 54.50 a share , off a scant 12.5 cents .
In a statement , Chairman Frank Shrontz asserted that the company `` faces significant challenges and risks , '' on both its commercial and government contracts .
For instance , he noted that spending on Pentagon programs is shrinking , and Boeing is either the prime contractor or a major supplier on many important military projects , including the B-2 Stealth bomber , the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft and the Air Force 's next-generation tactical fighter .
Because of cost overruns on fixed-price military work , Mr. Shrontz said , the company 's defense business will record `` a significant loss '' in 1989 .
Foothills Pipe Lines Ltd. filed an application with Canadian regulators to build a 4.4 billion Canadian dollar ( US $ 3.74 billion ) pipeline to transport natural gas from Canada 's Arctic to U.S. markets beginning in
The application by Foothills , owned by Calgary-based Nova Corp. of Alberta and Westcoast Energy Inc. of Vancouver , Canada , is expected to kick off what could be a contentious battle for the right to transport vast quantities of gas to southern markets from still-undeveloped fields in Canada 's Mackenzie River delta .
`` This is a pre-emptive strike by Foothills , '' said Rick Hillary , natural gas manager of the Calgary-based Independent Petroleum Association of Canada , an industry group .
`` Foothills wants to make it clear to other pipeline companies that it 's on first insofar as transporting gas from the Arctic to southern markets , '' Mr. Hillary said .
At least two rival applications are expected to emerge in coming months , including one from TransCanada PipeLines Ltd. , Canada 's largest natural gas pipeline operator .
Another is expected from a consortium of oil and gas producers who won conditional approval this month from Canada 's National Energy Board to export about 9.2 trillion cubic feet of Mackenzie delta gas to the U.S. starting in 1996 .
The producers include Shell Canada Ltd. , a unit of Royal Dutch\/Shell Group ; Esso Resources Canada Ltd. , a unit of Imperial Oil Ltd. , which is 71 % - owned by Exxon Corp. ; and Gulf Canada Resources Ltd. , a unit of Olympia & amp ; York Developments Ltd .
`` The { National Energy Board } approval of the exports just waved the starting flag for the next stage , the rush to build facilities to transport the gas , '' said Bill Koerner , an analyst with Brady & amp ; Berliner , a Washington , D.C. , law firm .
The Toronto-based company , together with Tenneco Inc. of Houston , has had an incomplete proposal filed with Canadian regulators since 1984 that it is now updating .
Douglas Stoneman , vice president of Shell Canada , noted that producers would prefer to avoid hearings into competing proposals that would lengthen the regulatory review process and bog down development .
Interprovincial Pipe Line Co. , an oil pipeline operator rumored to be mulling a gas pipeline proposal of its own , said that is n't in the cards .
Instead , Richard Haskayne , president and chief executive of Interprovincial 's Calgary-based parent , Interhome Energy Inc. , said the company would prefer to work with other `` interested parties '' on a joint proposal .
In what was considered the largest protest in the Communist state 's 40-year history , at least 120,000 demonstrators marched through the southern city of Leipzig to press demands for democratic freedoms , opposition activists said .
Meanwhile , as the first of more than 1,300 East Germans trying to flee to the West through Poland renounced their citizenship , a West German newspaper reported that regional Communist officials demanded the dismissal of hard-line leader Honecker .
Secretary of State Baker , in a foreign policy speech , called for the reunification of Germany , saying it was the `` legitimate right '' of the German people .
Seoul and Pyongyang reached a tentative agreement to allow visits between families on the divided Korean peninsula .
Freed black nationalists resumed political activity in South Africa and vowed to fight against apartheid , raising fears of a possible white backlash .
The White House said Bush is `` fully satisfied '' with CIA Director Webster and the intelligence agency 's performance during the Oct. 3 failed coup in Panama .
The Washington Post reported that unidentified senior administration officials were frustrated with Webster 's low-profile activities during the insurrection and wanted him replaced .
Poland 's legislature approved limits on automatic wage increases without special provisions for food price rises .
Norway 's King Olav V installed a three-party non-Socialist government as Gro Harlem Brundtland 's three-year-old Labor regime relinquished power .
The 19-member cabinet is led by Prime Minister Jan Syse , who acknowledged a `` difficult situation '' since the coalition controls only 62 seats in Oslo 's 165-member legislature .
El Salvador 's government opened a new round of talks with the country 's leftist rebels in an effort to end a decade-long civil war .
A spokesman said the guerrillas would present a cease-fire proposal during the negotiations in Costa Rica that includes constitutional and economic changes .
The U.S. has six trade promotion offices in Canada .
Canada 's export effort has been blunted by robust home market demand and by an 18 % appreciation of the Canadian dollar against its U.S. counterpart in the past three years that has made Canadian goods more costly in the U.S. .
Canada 's trade surplus with all countries narrowed to C $ 203.5 million in August from C $ 528.3 million in July , Statistics Canada said .
Apogee Robotics Inc. said its board extended until Feb. 1 the exercise period of Apogee 's existing stock purchase warrants outstanding .
Each of the 1,075,000 warrants entitle the holders to purchase one share of Apogee common stock for $ 2.25 .
Apogee was quoted in the over-the-counter market yesterday at $ 2 bid .
In August , soon after Wang Laboratories Inc. reported a staggering $ 424.3 million loss and replaced its president , two Boston sales representatives sent customers a letter saying : `` We fully expect that you will soon be reading stories in the press reporting the ` Amazing Comeback at Wang . ' ''
But Wang salespeople are trying to cope with the biggest challenge any marketer can face : selling the products of a company that is on the ropes .
`` If your prospect is feeling risk the whole time and you 're not feeling as if you 're backed up by a stable company , you 've lost it before you 've begun , '' says Mary Ann Cluggish , a Wellesley , Mass . , sales trainer and consultant who works with high technology companies .
But he kept Fruit of the Loom Inc. , the underwear maker that he still controls and serves as chairman and chief executive .
Cluett was an independent company until West Point-Pepperell acquired it for $ 375 million in cash and stock in 1986 .
In the fiscal year ended Sept. 30 , 1988 , Cluett had operating profit of $ 37 million on sales of $ 757 million .
Bidermann sells clothes under various labels , including Yves Saint Laurent and Bill Robinson for men and Ralph Lauren for women .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading , West Point-Pepperell fell 25 cents to $ 53.875 .
Richard G. Sim , the man credited with transforming Applied Power Inc. from an underachiever into a feisty player in the global market for hydraulic tools , hopes to guide a similar turnaround at the company 's latest acquisition , Barry Wright Corp .
The 45-year-old former General Electric Co. executive figures it will be easier this time .
But analysts , while applauding the acquisition , say Applied 's chief executive faces a tough challenge in integrating the two companies .
Barry Wright , acquired by Applied for $ 147 million , makes computer-room equipment and vibration-control systems .
The Watertown , Mass . , company 's sales have been dormant and its profits have dropped .
That Labor Day , in his first major act after succeeding the resigned Richard Nixon as president , Gerald R. Ford signed the Employee Retirement Income Security Act .
In 1972 , then Treasury Secretary George Shultz , with the key support of Sen. Carl Curtis , sought some form of pensions for the uncovered .
That year a four-man group headed by William Lieber in the Legislation and Regulations division of the Office of the Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service , was assigned the task of designing a plan .
They used the 1962 Keogh Plan , a pension plan created by a New York congressman for the self-employed , as a partial model .
So they opted for IRA , naming it after Ira Cohen , a brilliant IRS actuary who helped them .
Ira , himself , confirms this account .
But in 1986 Congress sharply reduced the number of people who could qualify for its benefits and IRA tax-deductions slowed their roaring growth .
George L. Manzanec , 53 years old , senior vice president of Texas Eastern Corp. , was elected a group vice president of this natural-gas-pipeline concern .
But analysts say Sansui is a special case .
If you find sound , healthy companies in Japan , they are not for sale , '' said George Watanabe , a management-consultant at Tokyo-based Asia Advisory Services Inc .
Statistics on acquisitions by foreigners vary in detail , because unlike Sansui , which is listed on the Tokyo and Osaka stock exchanges , most of the Japanese companies acquired by foreigners are privately held .
Sansui was once one of Japan 's premier makers of expensive , high-quality stereo gear for audiophiles .
Some of Sansui 's fellow audio-specialty companies , such as Aiwa Co. and Pioneer Electric Corp. , responded to the challenge by quickly bringing out mini-component products of their own , by moving heavily into the booming compact disk businesses or by diversifying into other consumer-electronics fields , including laser disks or portable cassette players .
Sansui was late into the mini-component business and failed to branch into other new businesses .
As the yen soared in recent years , Sansui 's deepening financial problems became a vicious circle .
Such risk taking is an everyday matter for the brash Mr. Nadir , who is 25 % owner of Polly Peck as well as its chairman .
He took Polly Peck , once a small fabric wholesaler , and used it at as a base to build a conglomerate that has been doubling its profits annually since 1980 .
In September , it announced plans to acquire the tropical-fruit business of RJR Nabisco Inc. 's Del Monte foods unit for # 557 million ( $ 878 million ) .
Last month , Polly Peck posted a 38 % jump in pretax profit for the first half to # 54.8 million from # 39.8 million on a 63 % rise in sales .
Joann S. Lublin in London contributed to this article .
The West German machinery and plant equipment industry 's orders rose an inflation-adjusted 1 % in September from a year earlier despite a sharp drop in foreign orders , the German Association of Machinery Makers said .
When Michael S. Perry took the podium at a recent cosmetics industry event , more than 500 executives packing the room snapped to attention .
Mr. Perry , who runs Unilever Group 's world-wide personal-care business , paused to scan the crowd .
First Unilever , the Anglo-Dutch packaged-goods giant , spent $ 2 billion to acquire brands such as Faberge and Elizabeth Arden .
It now holds the No . 3 position at U.S. department-store cosmetic counters .
