The multiyear revitalization of Disney Springs has transformed Walt Disney World ’ s former Downtown Disney into a glimmering outdoor promenade. And since it ’ s the only Disney-linked spot of its size that doesn ’ t require admission , a visit here is inevitable. While at its core , Springs is just a sprawling waterfront mall split into four pleasantly themed “ neighborhoods , ” it doubles as a culinary destination of its own , with a number of lively bars , impressive restaurants , and more than a few offerings from recognizable names. There ’ s plenty of shopping and entertainment to take in too , but you ’ re here for the corn dogs and cannoli sundaes.
Fancy chefs just can ’ t resist making fancy fried chicken sandwiches. This weekend , fancy Chicago-based chef Grant Achatz ( Alinea , Roister , Next ) drew his sword in the fancy fried chicken wars when he posted a photo of his new fried chicken sandwich on Instagram. In the caption , he tagged fancy NYC-based chef David Chang , who 's been rolling out a line of fried chicken restaurants in New York ( Fuku ) for the past year and a half. What do ya got @ davidchang ? A photo posted by Grant Achatz ( @ grant_achatz ) on Oct 30 , 2016 at 1 : 14pm PDT Chang responded good-naturedly , writing , “ Looks good @ grant_achatz. ” Other commenters speculated on which sandwich is superior , and played up the rivalry between the two superstar chefs with comments like , “ Shots fired ” and “ [ David Chang ] has some work to do. ” But who ’ s responsible for the current fried chicken sandwich trend , anyway ? Chang unleashed fried chicken sandwich mania on Manhattan when he launched Fuku in June 2015 ; Shake Shack launched its own chicken sandwich the following month , taking it nationwide last January. This fall , the fried poultry rivalry heated up again when Shack launched a saucy Salt & Pepper Honey Chick ’ n sandwich ; just a few weeks later , Chang unveiled a new sweet-and-spicy glazed chicken sandwich at Fuku. ( Of course , everyone is really copying Chick-fil-A , the fabled progenitor of the fried chicken sandwich. )
Today marks four years since since the labor movement known as the Fight for $ 15 launched , and American fast-food employees and other hourly workers are continuing to push for a living wage. Declaring today a “ National Day of Disruption , ” protesters in hundreds of cities across the country are participating in mass strikes and sit-ins to bring attention to the cause. Reports of peaceful arrests have emerged in a number of cities , including Detroit , Chicago , Minneapolis , Houston , and Los Angeles , where dozens were taken into custody after blocking a roadway. In Manhattan , two dozen protesters were arrested for blocking traffic — including multiple city council members and an 83-year-old McDonald ’ s employee. 83-year old McDoanld 's worker Jose Carillo on his 12th strike gets arrested # Fightfor15 pic.twitter.com/ExvgzmNoqE
The Food and Drug Administration recently declared genetically modified salmon perfectly safe to eat , but the government agency is temporarily barring the fish. The FDA wo n't allow imports until it can publish guidelines on how the product can be labeled , reports the Washington Post. The FDA previously stated , " AquAdvantage salmon is as safe to eat as any non-genetically engineered ( GE ) Atlantic salmon , and also as nutritious. " But , the ban reportedly is a response to language in a spending bill passed by Congress , which forbid the sale of genetically engineered salmon until the agency finalizes rules about how it should be labeled. The Post says that process could take years. The ban should put detractors of genetically modified organisms at ease , at least for the time being. When the FDA first ruled on the salmon , Food & Water Watch issued a statement decrying AquAdvantage 's approval and noting that parent company AquaBounty has some unsavory history. " In recent years , AquaBounty facilities outside the United States have dealt with an accidental disease outbreak , an accident that lead to ‘ lost ' salmon , and a $ 9,500 fine from Panamanian regulators who found the company in breach of that country 's environmental laws , " the statement claims.
Amidst the turmoil of Hurricane Harvey and its aftermath , the people of Texas are banding together and doing some amazing things for each other. Case in point : The team from a Pizza Hut in Sugar Land baked a bunch of pies earlier this week and delivered them via kayak to people who were trapped in their homes due to flooding. Store manager Shayda Habib told local news station KPRC : " When I heard there were families in need , I knew we needed to act fast... I called my husband and asked him to gather up kayaks and meet me at the restaurant. " Habib and six of her employees waded through the water with over a hundred pizzas atop the kayaks. “ The people in the houses did n't expect us to come. ” Habib told the Houston Chronicle. “ It was so nice to see their smiles after so much gloom. " The Pizza Hut manager plans to keep baking pies for the victims of the flood until the supplies run out.
If you know Guy Fieri , you probably know Donkey Sauce. The frosted-tip-goatee model and mayor of Flavortown , USA has made the condiment famous by slathering it on just about everything , spreading its gospel from cruise ships to casinos around the world. It ’ s a cornerstone of his empire ; a mysterious sauce that embodies the mystique of the Fieri brand. All of this is why the spiky-haired chef made waves this week with the admission that the mysterious sauce is really just aioli — an emulsion of olive oil , garlic , and egg yolks. Frankly , many people suspected this was the case all along , but the confirmation from the man himself has nevertheless shaken some fans up. A minor social media panic unfolded earlier this week , as a prank article claiming beloved Texas chain Whataburger would shutter all stores did the rounds on Twitter and Facebook. The outcry from fans was so great that the chain ’ s official Twitter had to actually make a statement refuting the hoax.
Gordon Ramsay loves curse words like a dog loves a bone , but anyone who ’ s watched MasterChef and MasterChef Junior knows that the food media star adopts a much softer tone when he ’ s talking to children as opposed to adults. Part of MasterChef Junior ’ s strange appeal is seeing the F-bomb archer turn into a cuddly pep-talker when something goes awry in the kiddie kitchen. You ’ d think Ramsay would apply this same logic to his own children ’ s cooking , but the chef ’ s 15-year-old daughter Tilly tells a slightly different story. During a recent visit to UK chat show This Morning on Monday , Tilly explained : “ He ’ s a really fussy eater... Well , with my food. He ’ s really tough on me. He definitely is. ” She also said that her style of cooking is “ a lot easier than his ” because “ if you don ’ t have one of the ingredients , it ’ s not a big deal. ” Later in the segment , Gordon showed his soft side in a video message to his daughter : “ Hi Tills , it ’ s your favorite chef here. Good luck. Don ’ t burn anything. And remember , you learned everything from me ! ” Tilly was quick to point out that she learned a lot from her mom too , remarking : “ It ’ s not just him. He likes to think it is. ”
Acclaimed North Carolina chef Ashley Christensen will open a pizzeria next year in Raleigh. Per an Instagram account created two days ago , Pooleside Pie will be located next to Poole ’ s Diner , Christensen ’ s French-meets-Southern restaurant that ’ s a member of the National 38 and the Southern 38. The Instagram accounts reveals Christensen conducting pizza research in Naples — perhaps an indication that Pooleside Pie will go in the direction of wetter pies on wood-fired crusts. Pooleside Pie has been in the works since at least 2015 , with Christensen eying Neapolitan pies from the get-go. Pooleside Pie will join Christensen ’ s ever-growing list of Raleigh restaurants , which currently includes Poole ’ s Diner ( basically the flagship of the group ) , the burger joint Chuck ’ s , the fried chicken specialist Beasley ’ s Chicken + Honey , Fox Liquor Bar , and the elegant , hearth-centric Death & Taxes.
If you ’ re going to survive the long days Disney demands , you ’ ll need caffeine. Here ’ s what to get — and what to avoid — if you ’ re serious about your coffee and tea. < ! --try { Typekit.load ( { async : true } ) ; } catch ( e ) { } // --> Sticky-hot heat and crowded parks call for iced coffee. But take note : the beverage sold as " iced coffee " at Joffrey 's outposts all over the Disney grounds is not what you 're looking for. It 's super sweet , like melted coffee ice cream. Skip it. Too much adventure ? Good old Starbucks is nothing if not consistent , and there 's one in every park. If you 're looking for a true iced coffee , this is your best bet. Royal Anandpur Tea Company offers a surprisingly wide range of good teas , including four variations on green tea and a low-caffeine Silver Needle white. Critic Bill Addison liked his ti kwan yin oolong so much that he brought it with him on a roller coaster — and got off the ride still holding his cup. Need something cold , sweet , and gimmicky ? There 's also a frozen chai , which comes topped with whipped cream in the shape of Mickey 's head.
Avatar , the story of an all-American hunk who infiltrates a tribe of lanky blue aliens and saves them from extinction all while romancing the chieftain ’ s daughter , is becoming a new theme land at Walt Disney World. And , as is the case with most major Disney attractions , Pandora : World of Avatar will have a corresponding theme restaurant. It ’ s called Satu'li Canteen. James Cameron ’ s blockbuster film doesn ’ t have a whole lot of food in it — most of the screen time is dedicated to action and romance — but the Disney team has taken the liberty of establishing what the Na ’ vi might serve at a restaurant. After taking a look at the menu , it ’ s clear that they eat health fare with South American and Asian touches , plus some American junk food , which they might just cook to appease the soldiers who swooped in to save the day. The menu has a “ sustainable fish bowl , ” “ cheeseburger steamed pods , ” and a “ slow roasted sliced grilled beef bowl. ”
Mochi — pounded sticky rice — is most commonly seen in the US filled with ice cream and sold in the freezer section of a grocery store chain. Creating the traditional Japanese confectionary is a laborious process that many chefs rather not tackle ; but pastry chef Natsume Aoi can ’ t imagine doing a menu without it. “ I think I ’ m one of the few that would even attempt to do a hand-wrapped mochi [ in a restaurant ] where we can seat 400 capacity in two runs , ” jokes Aoi , the pastry chef at New York ’ s high-volume Morimoto. “ It ’ s not the smartest move to make. ” Still , for Aoi , having mochi on her menu — even one adapted to the western palate — is something that brings her closer to home. “ Every restaurant that I have ever worked at , as long as I ’ m in a position to bring something to the menu , it will always be something that ’ s personal , ” she explains. “ I ’ m pretty far away from home and I need to have a way to bring that with me. ”
Colorado-based pasta chain Noodles & Company has announced a " data security incident " that may have led to customers ' credit card information being compromised. Through " ongoing third-party investigations , " the chain has confirmed malware targeted locations in 27 states and Washington , D.C. " Credit and debit cards used at the affected locations are no longer at risk from the malware involved in this incident , " the chain said in a press release. " Guests can safely use their credit and debit cards at Noodles & Company locations. Noodles & Company is working with the United States Secret Service to investigate this incident. " Customers who dined at the affected restaurants between January 31 and June 2 should check their bank statements. Potentially compromised information includes cardholder name , card number , expiration date , and CVV. The chain says credit card transactions on its website were not part of the breach.
Do you like food ? Do you like movies ? Do you like movies about food ? If you answered yes to any of those questions , you might enjoy Eater at the Movies , a column by Joshua David Stein. Netflix comes at you in feast or famine , like a poorly paced tasting menu. Take Chef 's Table , which I 've eagerly awaited since the debut of its first season. That April , like a dog left alone with an open bag of IAMS , I took in too much too quickly and a sort of gassy haze descended upon me. The chefs , their stars , their poetry , and enough slow-motion to undo all of Koyaanisqatsi blurred into one big elegiac rhapsody to... something. What exactly is unclear , but whatever it was , it was , I remember , deeply felt. This time , when the six episodes of the second season became available , I resolved to watch it like a normal person , to savor each episode. After all , the spread of chefs seemed a little more interesting in season two. They are n't JV , exactly , but they are n't exactly obvious either. The first season , if you remember , went after either low-hanging fruit , following chefs with cultish followings like Dan Barber , Francis Mallmann , Massimo Bottura , and Magnus Nilsson ; or after unexpected fruit , like N/Naka 's Niki Nakayama and Attica 's Ben Shewry , who felt so obscure as to be randomly appended. This made for uneven viewing and a sense of malaise throughout.
As a carnivore by profession and the host of Eater ’ s The Meat Show , Nick Solares has sampled his fair share of interesting and surprising cuts , varieties , and preparations of meat. On this week ’ s episode , he 's at it again , traveling to Dallas , Texas , to chef John Tesar ’ s upscale steakhouse Knife for an experiment in pushing beef dry-aging to the limit. From the depths of Knife 's dry-aging room , Solares is presented with five steaks of varying levels of maturity , from 45 days aged ( already significantly older than the industry standard for dry-aging , 28 days ) to a supremely funky 420 days. Watch the video above as Solares ' searches for the tipping point , where dry-aging goes from flavor-enhancing to overwhelming , while enumerating the tasting notes of all five cuts. For another episode of extreme dry-aged steak sampling — this time at Long Island City 's Mu Ramen — click here.
This story was originally published on Civil Eats. At a 2007 conference on the links between gum disease and diabetes , dentist Cristen Kearns was shocked to hear a keynote speaker describe Lipton Brisk sweet tea as a “ healthy ” drink. Knowing that the tea contained around 55 grams of sugar at the time , Kearns confronted him. “ ’ There is no evidence linking sugar to chronic disease , ’ ” she recalls him saying. The reply left her speechless. After the conference , Kearns , now a professor of dentistry and health policy at the University of California at San Francisco ( UCSF ) , began digging into research funded by the sugar industry and trade groups. Eventually , she stumbled on an archive of material , including confidential memos , that had been donated to Colorado libraries by the Great Western Sugar Company , which went out of business in the 1970s.
Disabled people should get to eat in restaurants. That doesn ’ t sound like a revolutionary manifesto , but survey the long history of disability and discrimination , and it really kind of is. Thanks to decades of activism , civil rights legislation , and litigation , a person with a disability has a pretty unimpeachable legal and moral right to go into any restaurant and expect to be able to eat with relatively equal access to whatever culinary delights await. Too bad it doesn ’ t always work out that way. Chloe Konicki describes herself as having low vision and being hard of hearing , or “ deaf with a lowercase ‘ d ’ . ” Candace Coleman says one of her favorite pastimes is visiting restaurants. Sometimes she uses a powered wheelchair ; sometimes she doesn ’ t. She just doesn ’ t want to be stressed about accommodations. “ If you ’ re not stressed , you enjoy the food ! ” Gary Arnold is a Little Person — actually , he ’ s the president of Little People of America , but he also runs public relations for Access Living , the local shop for all things disability rights-related in Chicago.
Pasta Flyer , the fast-food restaurant from Del Posto chef Mark Ladner , has finally landed in New York City. The restaurant has been in the works since 2014 , when Ladner launched a Kickstarter for what was then a “ quick-service gluten-free pasta concept ” modeled after Japanese ramen shops. In the years since , the idea has evolved to include gluten , but speed is still its chief component : In fact , Ladner and partner Nastassia Lopez want Pasta Flyer to be the McDonald ’ s of pasta. Unlike other fine dining chefs making forays into quick-service cuisine , Ladner is upfront about serving fast food. The long-delayed restaurant opens this week with a menu featuring mix-and-match pastas ( including fusilli , fettucine , rigatoni , and gluten-free penne ) and sauces ( like basil pesto , alfredo , and marinara ) for as little as $ 6 , and Ladner expects the whole process , from ordering to a customer receiving food , to take under a minute. A “ Nonna loves you ” meal , which includes spaghetti and meatballs in marinara sauce with a side salad and drink , costs $ 9.99.
When the producers of the The Great British Bake Off announced that the show would be switching networks and losing three of its main stars — Mary Berry , Mel Giedroyc , and Sue Perkins — fans of the UK cooking competition show lost their damn minds. The announcement of replacement hosts Noel Fielding and Sandi Toksvig didn ’ t do much to quell their fears that the show was headed in the wrong direction. And a creepy , universally panned teaser for the new series with barfing anthropomorphized biscuits seemed like a warning to fans of the old show to avoid Bake Off 2.0 at all costs. But now , Channel 4 ’ s new iteration of the program has officially made its UK debut , and the early word is actually... pretty great ? Many of the critics point to the fact that the contestants are the heart and soul of the show , and this is a particularly charming bunch of bakers. But Guardian critic Lucy Mangan has some nice things to say about the new hosts and judges , too. “ Prue Leith replaces Mary Berry , so we still have our experienced matriarch taking care of business , ” Mangan writes. “ Sandi Toksvig has Sue Perkins ’ wit , sheathed to the same decorous degree , and Noel Fielding has Mel Giedroyc ’ s warmth as well as humour. ” And in his five-star review , Telegraph critic Michael Hogan notes : “ Mary , Mel , and Sue might be gone but the show ’ s recipe remains as winning as ever. “
• Because food bloggers will show up to a meal literally anywhere , a new pop-up “ restaurant ” in London is literally serving guests airline food. The pop-up , called “ This Is How We Fly Today , ” is a stunt concocted by Air New Zealand , and offers visitors dishes like “ lamb with minted peas ” and various canap é s in an attempt to convince them that the airline ’ s on-flight offerings are not-terrible ( or at the very least , are SFW ) . Airlines have been increasingly looking to improve their food options of late , with chefs like Maneet Chauhan , Sam Choy and restauranteurs like Danny Meyer getting into the in-flight dining game. • In this brief Q&A with the LA Times , F ä viken chef/owner Magnus Nilsson reveals that it ’ s not so odd to own one of the world ’ s most hard-to-visit destination restaurants and also a hot dog cart. “ My philosophy ’ s always been that you can do anything well , and you can do anything really poorly as well. ”
I remember watching my grandmother make us egg coffee when we ’ d visit her summertime cabin home on the orange-tinged shores of Lake Esquagama , Minnesota. She ’ d crack an egg into a small bowl and beat it until thoroughly blended , then mix the egg into dry coffee grounds ( we were a Hills Bros. family , but Folger ’ s sometimes stood in at the cabin ) . The mixture was then put into a large stove-top coffee pot and brought to a boil. Once it was good and roiling , she ’ d turn the heat off and allow the grounds to steep for 10 minutes. A little wad of tinfoil poked into the spout of the coffee pot. ( That tinfoil was like a family heirloom , and lord help the person who inadvertently threw it away. ) She would then dump a coffee cup ’ s worth of cold water into the pot , allow it to settle for 10 minutes and then gently pour several cups of coffee. The mixture was a translucent burnt sienna color , and completely devoid of bitterness. Despite its light color , the texture in the mouth was luscious , giving the coffee a round richness. Cups were drank in quick succession.
Philly-based CookNSolo is quickly becoming a national restaurant group to know. James Beard Award-winning chef Michael Solomonov and partner Steve Cook have just announced plans to open up a Dizengoff , their Israeli-style hummusiya , in Miami. This isn ’ t the only CookNSolo project outside of the Northeast : In June , the group announced plans to expand fried-chicken-and-doughnuts mini chain Federal Donuts ( affectionately known as FedNuts ) to Miami and Nashville. It ’ s already been a big year for the team behind James Beard Award-nominated Zahav. The Dizengoff announcement comes less than a month after the surprise opening of Goldie , a vegan , Israeli-style falafel shop just above Rooster Soup Co. , Solomonov ’ s luncheonette that donates all its profits to charity. That restaurant opened in a basement space in Philadelphia early this year.
In eastern North Carolina , whole hog is the star of the show at smokehouses such as Skylight Inn. But , it is n't the only component of a proper barbecue meal. In this video , chef Vivian Howard pays a visit to Skylight Inn to learn the secrets of its celebrated coleslaw. Pete Jones opened the iconic restaurant in 1947 , and these days his grandson Sam is in charge. When he first learned how to make the slaw , Sam Jones discovered it 's far from an exact science. " I called my dad on the phone , " he explains in the video. " Everything he told me was 'about. ' 'Put about this of mustard , put about this of mayonnaise. ' I thought there is no way I 'm going to get this slaw right , but I guess the good lord was smiling upon me. We made it , and it tasted right. " • Cabbage | A Chef 's Life | PBS Food [ YouTube ]
General Mills has issued a major recall of products sold under its Gold Medal Flour label. The voluntary recall , announced Tuesday , covers 10 million pounds of flour , according to USA Today , and it 's related to an E. coli outbreak that has sickened 38 people in 20 states. " As a leading provider of flour for 150 years , we felt it was important to not only recall the product and replace it for consumers if there was any doubt , but also to take this opportunity to remind our consumers how to safely handle flour , " Liz Nordlie , president of General Mills baking division , said in a prepared statement. The company is working with health officials to investigate an outbreak of E. coli strain O121 , which dates back to December. General Mills says the outbreak may be potentially connected to Gold Medal flour , Wondra flour , and Signature Kitchens flour , but so far E. coli has not been found in any of its products or in its flour-manufacturing facility in Kansas City , Mo.
Sushi purists in Japan may have a problem with a new novelty candy from Nestl é . Kit Kat , the chocolate-coated wafer bar with a distinct crunch , will soon be available in the form of sushi , per Kotaku. Three varieties are being produced : tuna , tamago ( egg ) , and uni. A sea urchin-flavored candy bar sounds like a potentially hard thing to pull off. Perhaps knowing this , the Kit Kat people decided to make these “ inspired ” by these sushi staples. Instead of sushi rice , they ’ re served on crispy puffed rice. And instead of fish and egg flavors , they taste like raspberry and white chocolate ( tuna ) , pumpkin pudding ( tamago ) , and Hokkaido melon and mascarpone cheese ( uni ) . Although , a bit of authenticity comes in the seaweed that wraps the candy bars. The sweet sushi will be served at a Kit Kat specialty shop that is opening in Tokyo ’ s Ginza district this Thursday.
Chicken wings are one of the world ’ s most perfect foods. Besides being the tastiest part of the entire bird , they ’ re also delightfully inexpensive — usually. A French restaurant in Hong Kong called Belon has taken everyone ’ s favorite Super Bowl snack and thoroughly bastardized it by stuffing it with luxury ingredients , NextShark reports , including prized matsutake mushrooms and foie gras. The result ? A single chicken wing that at HK $ 268 , or approximately $ 35 USD , costs more than a week ’ s worth of Starbucks pilgrimages. Chicken wing farci. A photo posted by BELON ( @ belonhk ) on Aug 14 , 2016 at 3 : 51am PDT A single $ 35 wing makes the $ 89 whole roast chicken at The Nomad in Manhattan seem like a relative bargain ; that one , too , is stuffed with pricey mushrooms and foie gras. But clearly no one-percenter Super Bowl party would be complete without a bucket of these wings. In the meantime , the hungry bourgeoisie can feast on $ 180 bowls of ramen or ice cream cones covered in gold leaf.
Italian authorities have come down hard on olive oil fraud , fining a handful of big name brands for incorrect labeling. Antitrust regulators said the " extra virgin " labeling on a number of brands of oil was misleading after tests revealed the oils could only legally be classified as " virgin " olive oils , reports The Local. Among the brands fined hundreds of thousands of Euros were Deoleo , which owns the Bertolli , Sasso and Carapelli olive oil brands , as well as grocery chain Lidl and Pietro Coricelli , according to the Olive Oil Times. Lidl was fined € 550,000 ( about $ 608,000 ) for incorrect labeling of its Primadonna brand , and Deoleo was fined € 300,000 ( about $ 330,000 ) for discrepancies on some of its oils.
New York City ’ s Breads Bakery has become known for its flaky chocolate babka , but real fans know that baker Uri Scheft ’ s rugelach — those almost croissant-like , stuffed flaky cookies — are not to be missed. Out now is Scheft ’ s first cookbook , Breaking Breads : A New World of Israeli Baking. And here ’ s a sneak peek of the baker ’ s secret rugelach recipe , which actually uses babka dough as its base. It ’ s a perfect project for a chilly weekend afternoon. Makes 48 rugelach American rugelach are made with a flaky pastry dough that usually contains cream cheese , either instead of or in addition to butter. The dough is sprinkled with chopped chocolate and nuts or raisins and cinnamon , rolled into a log , and sliced crosswise into small pieces. My rugelach are more of a pastry than a cookie. I use babka dough rolled very thin , spread the dough with Nutella and bittersweet chocolate ganache , and then shape the rugelach into mini croissants. The key to the success of the rugelach is for the dough to be rolled extra-thin , and since the dough is yeasted ( remember , you ’ re using babka dough ) , it ’ s important to refrigerate it whenever it starts to resist your rolling pin , which I guarantee will happen. A marble surface is excellent for rolling this pastry. You can get the effect of cool marble by placing a couple of bags of ice on the counter to chill it before rolling.
Welcome to the Opening Report , Eater ’ s guide to notable restaurant openings across the country. New York leads the pack this week with showstoppers headed by April Bloomfield and Max and Eli Sussman. Down South , New Orleans ’ trailblazer John Besh unleashed his latest seafood project on Nashville , while Midwesterners got a first-taste of Chipotle ’ s new burger concept Tasty Made. Read on for a rundown of each splashy debut. Hit makers , British chef April Bloomfield and Ken Friedman unveiled their latest undertaking , White Gold this week on New York ’ s Upper West Side. The pair behind such establishments as The Spotted Pig , The Breslin , and The John Dory Oyster Bar have teamed up with Erika Nakamura and Jocelyn Guest on a meaty butcher shop and restaurant. This time around Bloomfield and Friedman have gone more casual , according to Eater NY. The 38-seat restaurant portion , slated to open November 1 ( the butcher shop is now open ) , will provide guests with a full view of the whole-animal butchery process. Diners can expect a blend of table service and counter service with dishes like rotisserie chicken , breakfast sandwiches , and house-made cold cut sandwiches.
After Amazon bought Whole Foods last year , dozens of amateur theorists tried to guess what might happen next — but no one expected the nation ’ s top organic grocer to start sporting empty shelves. “ They ’ re out of kale , ” a shopper at the location in Manhattan ’ s Union Square remarked to her friend one evening last week. “ That ’ s , like , very off-brand. ” Shoppers may also notice far fewer sample offerings , and not as many items from local makers. Earlier this month , near-empty shelves and produce bins caused a flurry of complaints at Whole Foods stores across the country. This was due to a new inventory management system , according to Business Insider , which interviewed several Whole Foods employees and managers. “ Regional and upper store management know about this , ” one Illinois-based manager told BI. “ We all know we are losing sales and pissing off customers. It ’ s not that we don ’ t care — we do. But our hands are tied. ”
Dough. Bread. Cheddar. Perhaps it 's no coincidence that some of the most popular slang terms for money reference food. After all , there 's a lot of money in soup , chocolate bars , and beer — industries that today seem a bit old-fashioned. Do n't let that humble soup can fool you. Forbes today released its annual ranking of America 's richest families. The list includes many of the usual suspects — the Waltons , the Kochs — and the sources of wealth run the gamut from retail to money management. But one industry that 's also earned American families a lot of , ahem , dough over the years , is food. Below , a closer look at the one-percenters who have managed to snag the largest pieces of the billion-dollar food industry pie , along with their net worth , and how they like to spend their cold , hard cash.
The first time I talked to Oakland chef James Syhabout was on the sidewalk outside Hawker Fare. This was in 2011 , before the restaurant was even open. Five years later , Hawker Fare is closing , a casualty of the city ’ s real estate frenzy. The book I helped Syhabout write — a memoir about growing up on an Oakland block with other Lao refugee families , and the Thai restaurant his mom operated in the space that would become Hawker Fare — hasn ’ t even been published. Already it ’ s an elegy for a vanished time. That ’ s how it goes these days. A restaurant , like the story of a chef ’ s life , doesn ’ t always end where you expect it to , wrapped up with a hopeful epilogue. As cities like Oakland change , displacing families who struggle to keep their roots alive in toxic soil , restaurants , and narratives , change with them. This one started with so much life.
Next , the Chicago restaurant that reinvents itself around a new theme multiple times a year , is currently dedicated to Hollywood. That means guests arrive on a “ step and repeat , ” as at a red carpet premiere. It also means that each course in the tasting menu is somehow tied to movies generally or a specific film. To executive chef Jenner Tomaska , food and film are a natural pair. “ Whether it be the focal point or not , there ’ s always some type of hospitality or food related scene in a movie. To me , it ’ s cool to see when it happens and it ’ s the focal point. ” When it came time to create the menu , Tomaska says he and his team shed their typical “ less is more philosophy. ” Observers of Next will see a link to some past menus in the look of the food itself , but probably not in the serving pieces. “ We had to hit enough nostalgia points and enough movie points , so that every diner that came in could have a reference to something , ” the chef explains. “ Whether it be to all the movies , or to more than half , is what we really wanted. ”
Long before Masaki Saito ’ s career began as a sushi chef , the Hokkaido native was attending a high school in his hometown that focused on marine biology. “ That knowledge , or rather experience , has been very helpful , ” says Saito — now the executive chef at the New York location of luxe , Tokyo-based sushi restaurant , Sushi Ginza Onodera. Choose either of Ginza ’ s omakase menus and it will cost you $ 300 or $ 400 ; but Saito is known to make the meal a memorable one because of his poignant guest interactions and laid back sense of humor. The premium offering , called kiwami — meaning pinnacle in Japanese — comes with appetizers like soy marinated tuna , one of the techniques Saito is using to preserve previously fresh fish. “ There ’ s nothing wrong with fresh fish , fresh fish is delicious , ” says Saito. “ But I ’ m trying to make that even more delicious. ”
A Philadelphia-based food testing startup has developed a new technology called Veriflow to detect illness-causing pathogens in foods. Invisible Sentinel uses a small device designed to scan for the DNA of E. coli , salmonella , listeria , and other food-born microorganisms in order to quickly determine the safety of a food item , the New York Times reported. In recent months , Chipotle has come under fire for a widespread incidence of E. coli in its restaurants which caused dozens of illnesses ( and spurred several lawsuits ) . Blue Bell Creameries has also struggled with listeria-related illnesses , and more recently , Dole recently recalled bagged salads after one person was killed and 12 were sickened by listeria. Incidents like these indicate a clear need for a solution so customers can avoid ill effects and companies can steer clear of PR nightmares , stock hits , and consequent complicated recovery plans.
The latest slice of Super Bowl ad absurdity comes courtesy of PepsiCo , the company that owns ultra-potent snack product Doritos and its equally extreme fizzy beverage sibling Mountain Dew. In this rare joint ad , Game of Thrones star Peter Dinklage walks through a spooky mansion lip-syncing to Busta Rhymes ’ s verse in Chris Brown ’ s “ Look at Me Now ” while munching on Doritos Blaze as flames shoot from a roaring fireplace behind him. By the end of his strut through the hall , all of the furniture is on fire. Meanwhile , on the other , much cooler side of the gothic parlor , Academy Award-winning actor Morgan Freeman is sipping on Mountain Dew Ice while lip-syncing to Missy Elliott ’ s “ Get Ur Freak On. ” All the furniture freezes as he walks by , and giant ice shards fall from the ceiling. At the end of the commercial , Dinklage and Freeman stare each other down from their respective hot and cool sides of the hallway. The best parts of this clip , though , are the shots of Busta and Missy as stationary works of art that briefly come to life to express their awe at the sight of the lip-sync battle unfolding before them.
Levi 's Stadium in Santa Clara , Calif. , set to host Super Bowl 50 next Sunday , is the most state-of-the-art venue in the NFL , and it has the mobile app to match. Among its many features , the official app of the big game helps fans avoid the long lines often found at concession stands , writes Mobile Sports Report. Fans can place orders on their phones , before picking up their food and beverages at express windows around the stadium. The Super Bowl app , which incorporates features from the Levi 's Stadium version , actually takes a step back. While it allows fans to order drinks and have them delivered directly to their seats , it does n't allow food delivery , which is available when the San Francisco 49ers play their home games at the stadium. Still , it 's a nice touch for impatient and thirsty fans who do n't want to wait for the roaming beer vendor to reach their aisle.
How much do you trust the reviews you read online ? Probably not a lot , right ? You know , like most people , that glowing write-ups and five-star ratings can be easily bought. And you might even think you ’ re pretty good at spotting the difference between fake reviews and real ones. But how well would you fare against reviews written by AI ? As first reported by Business Insider , researchers from the University of Chicago have trained a neural network that can churn out convincing fake reviews. Their research , which will be presented at the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security this October , points to a future where the online review system is not just hit and miss , but completely broken. Because although it ’ s one thing to be able to buy fake reviews from humans online ; it ’ s another when the process can be completely automated , with AI bots churning out super realistic write-ups on Amazon , Yelp , TripAdvisor , and everywhere else you look.
ow that " cookbook author " is a required stage in chefs ’ careers , lots of restaurant cookbooks are being published all the time. At their best , these books are decoder rings for replicating famous flavors in your own kitchen , or they 're simply pure , uncut armchair-chef eye candy. A great example of the latter is Gabrielle Hamilton ’ s Prune cookbook : With sharp , spiky prose that treated the reader like an about-to-be-fired employee at her New York restaurant , Prune , she made it clear that her book was about recording how things work for her — but wasn ’ t really expecting you to try to make Prune happen at home. When restaurant cookbooks flop , it ’ s because they ’ re neither transporting enough to read for their own sakes , nor quite accessible enough to cook from. A restaurant chef needs to set out to write either a voyeuristic peek into her kitchen or a useable cookbook ; if she doesn ’ t choose , or if she tries to do both , it ’ s likely that she ’ ll fail.
McDonald ’ s latest endeavor may come as a bit of a surprise : The fast-food behemoth is pursuing sustainable beef. As Fortune reports , the chain is funding two sustainable beef pilot programs in the U.S. , following years of tests in Canada , Europe , and Brazil. The first program involves a research partnership with agricultural nonprofit the Noble Foundation that will seek out ways in which sustainability can be improved across the entire U.S. beef supply chain. For the second program , McDonald ’ s is putting up $ 4.5 million to test new cattle-grazing practices “ that can actually lead to net-negative carbon impact , ” according to a statement from the company. McDonald ’ s also says it will eliminate deforestation ( the cutting down of forests to make room to raise cattle ) from its supply chain by 2020.
UPDATE , December 28 , 3 : 03 p.m. : Bad news from the Fieriverse — Eater NY reports that Guy ’ s Times Square restaurant , Guy ’ s American Kitchen & Bar , will permanently close on December 31. Sorry to jinx you , Guy , turns out you had a great first 362 days of 2017. Guy Fieri killed it in 2017. The Mayor of Flavortown , the Prince of Platinum , the Sultan of Spikes , the Oligarch of Oakleys , Fieri had a big year that included the 10-year anniversary of his ubiquitous Food Network travel show Diners , Drive-Ins , and Dives ( “ I ’ m just out there , ” Fieri told Thrillist in a look back at the show. “ I ’ ve always been witty. I ’ ve always had fun. I ’ ve always had fun with it. This is the truth ” ) . But in addition to celebrating that major benchmark , 2017 also saw Fieri making new restaurant plans , breathing life into old restaurant chains , getting more exposure on television , and committing some seriously good deeds. Here , now , are six of the best Fieri stories from the past 12 months.
Making good on its promise to open in lower-income neighborhoods , Starbucks debuted its first store in Ferguson , Missouri today. The coffee giant says it " plans to open similar stores in at least 15 low- to medium-income communities across the U.S. by 2018. " Ferguson became a household name in 2014 after a white police officer shot and killed unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown , who was African-American , resulting in an explosion of racial tensions in the predominantly black city. Data shows that 83 percent of Starbucks ' U.S. stores serve areas where the population is mostly white , and are typically found in wealthy or middle class areas. With more than 7,000 company-operated stores across America , 15 locations in lower-income areas wo n't do much to affect those statistics — but the company says its aim is to provide jobs and training opportunities for young people and to boost local economies , noting in a press release that " Nationally , 1 in 7 young adults does not work or attend school , a challenge that is compounded in low- to medium-income communities like Ferguson , particularly among young people of color. "
This week on the Eater Upsell podcast , Dan Geneen and I discuss the most interesting food stories of January. We debate the merits of Somebody Feed Phil , the new Netflix show from Everybody Loves Raymond creator Phil Rosenthal ; discuss the disturbing trend of Tide Pod consumption ; shed some light on how bizarre it is that New York ’ s grossest dive Continental Bar is now grammar-shaming its customers ; bitch about the restaurant investors who anonymously complained about restaurateur and chef Barbara Lynch behind her back to the press ; discuss the failure of Dave Chang ’ s delivery-only restaurant Ando and the opening of his LA newcomer Majordomo ; mourn the loss of the original celebrity chef , Paul Bocuse ; and learn about a Bangkok street vendor who wants to give back her Michelin star. To wrap it all up , Dan gets New York critic Robert Sietsema ’ s instant takeaways on their meal together at the new Salt Bae steakhouse in Manhattan. Spoiler : He ’ s not a fan.
New technology has arrived to suck all the fun out of millennials ’ incessant food photography by revealing the nutritional content of that beautiful slice of cheesecake. A weight loss app called Lose It just launched a new beta feature called Snap It that enables users to log how many calories they ’ re consuming by taking photos of their food , TechCrunch reports. For now , it will require at least a little work from users : After submitting a food photo , the app will briefly analyze it , then offer a few guesses as to what was in the photo. Users then pick the correct one and can add more detail — such as whether a sushi roll contains white or brown rice — and provide an approximate serving size to determine a final calorie count. A cursory test of the Snap It feature quickly reveals why it ’ s still in beta : While the app had no trouble identifying the leftover pizza in my fridge , and was even able to figure out that some lumpy brown shapes in my kitchen cabinet were chocolate-covered almonds , it had trouble with other common items : When I snapped a photo of Ritz crackers on a plate , its guesses included ravioli and doughnuts ( but not crackers ) , and thought a bowl of Lays potato chips could be guacamole. Its best guess for a beefsteak tomato ? Applesauce.
One day , while scrolling through Twitter , a post from Kitchen Arts & Letters caught my eye. The renowned New York City bookstore was selling a “ Nancy Drew Cookbook ” from the ’ 70s , written by Nancy Drew author Carolyn Keene “ herself. ” ( Keene was the pseudonym of several ghostwriters , male and female , who wrote the beloved mysteries over the years. ) As a fan of Nancy Drew , retro recipes , and any intersection of food and literature , I found it too good to pass up. When it arrived a few days later , I found I had purchased a cookbook that seemed to be written from Nancy ’ s perspective. Peppered with cooking “ clues ” and recipe titles like “ Captive Biscuits ” and “ Dancing Puppet Parfait , ” the book was a charmingly cheesy interpretation of Nancy Drew as someone who was interested in cooking , even though she doesn ’ t spend much time dwelling on food in the novels. Thankfully , she never made the horrifying recipes — muffins made with mayonnaise , “ peanut butter soup ” — featured in the cookbook.
By definition , diners are everyday and utilitarian , the no-frills , functional restaurant where nearly everyone can afford a meal. For decades , pulling up a seat or a stool and ordering a cup of coffee at these supremely democratic spaces has been a staple of the American diet , as well as the country ’ s pop culture. From the loners in Edward Hopper ’ s Nighthawks to detectives downing coffee and cherry pie in the recently resurrected Double R of Twin Peaks , the symbolism of diners is as reflective of U.S. mythology as their steel exteriors. Existing in a unique nexus of culture , culinary evolution , and construction history , diners offer simplicity and standardization by design. Built to be everywhere , they come from “ nowhere ” ( an assembly line ) , and serve as a spiritual precursor to modern takes on prefab , mass-manufactured spaces. The American Diner Museum defines these humble restaurants as “ prefabricated structures built at an assembly site and transported to a permanent location for installation to serve prepared food. ” In practice , they ’ ve always been small businesses built at scale , affordable ways for entrepreneurs — including many immigrants — to become their own bosses.
Some could say 2017 was a year of politics , confusion , shock , and uncertainty. But a poke at Google Trends data shows that in the food world at least , there were many opportunities to escape the commotion that was the rest of living in 2017. That is : If Americans were looking for a release , they found it in food. A look at this year ’ s top food trends shows the country ’ s hunger for the diverse , the magical , the nostalgic , and the euphoric. Here are 2017 ’ s top food trends , according to the Internet : Jamaican-inspired menus have been growing in popularity over the last few years , but 2017 was the cuisine ’ s breakout year. As Eater reported , this might be due to the growing number of chefs who , in an effort to make the island ’ s food more familiar and accessible to Americans , have been fusing Jamaican flavors with other international cuisines like Latin and Korean. Google Trends data shows search interest for “ Jamaican food ” and “ Caribbean food near me ” were high in 2016 , but even more so throughout 2017.
When the team behind Chicago ’ s the Aviary — sister bar to Alinea , one of the country ’ s most acclaimed restaurants — announced they were going to publish a cookbook , no one expected them to Kickstart it. A little over two weeks later , the Kickstarter has well surpassed its original goal of raising $ 50,000 : 3,640 people donated $ 423,627 to make the self-published Aviary cookbook a reality. The announcement of the Aviary cocktail book ’ s Kickstarter in mid-May initially raised eyebrows — why would a successful restaurant group ask for donations from the public ? — until Kokonas explained his understanding of the cookbook publishing industry. According to Kokonas , for the type of book the Aviary team wanted to create , they would end up making very little profit while doing most of the work. But if the team self-published , using their international fan base to drum up buzz and help fund the costs of producing the book , they could pocket all of the profit.
Dumplings are universal comfort foods , and in 2016 a small stall in one of Columbus ’ s international groceries became a phenomenon with its specialties — the Tibetan and Nepali staples called momos. Saraga International Grocery , on Columbus ’ s northeastern side , sells produce , meats , dairy , and packaged goods for cooking cuisines from around the world. The market also supports a few small food counters , including Momo Ghar run by chef-owner Phuntso Lama. Lama makes both steamed and fried variations of momos ; her most popular version is jhol momo , ground chicken with cilantro among its seasonings in a wrapper shaped into pleated rounds and steamed. Lama stuffs other momos with pork , or mild potato curry , or cabbage and other vegetables , either steamed or shaped into crescents and fried. The menu veers into other territories — a ramen-style soup known as thukpa , a pancake made with lentil flour — but the momos are the clear draw.
We ’ ve covered plenty on cuisines on Dining on a Dime , from Indonesian to Honduran and everything in between. But not until this Miami episode am I getting around to trying Colombian food — strange , since Colombia and I share a particularly strong devotion to street food. Colombian arepas , sancocho ( a traditional soup known to cure any hangover ) , and pandebono are well known , but La Moon in Miami ’ s Brickell neighborhood stops the show with its fantastic hot dogs and hamburgers. Just take a look at the Baby Moon Perro , a nine-inch dog served with mozzarella , potato sticks , bacon , a quail egg , and too many sauces to name. And these sauces are important , a point of contention among street vendors : Does the place across the street have three sauces ? We ’ ll do four. Now they have five ? Let ’ s do seven. This kind of free-market spirit led me to some incredible , monstrous creations.
Since acclaimed New Nordic pioneer chef Ren é Redzepi announced he would be taking his Copenhagen restaurant , Noma , on the road for a 10-week pop up in Australia , the food world has been awaiting what was predicted to be a cutting-edge , unique , and — of course — hyperlocal menu. The success of the two Michelin star restaurant 's previous pop-ups — Noma Tokyo ran for five weeks last year — has created a frenzy for food enthusiasts looking to snag a seat for the much-anticipated opening. At $ 339 USD per person , the pricey pop-up has not only sold out , but currently has 27,000 people on the waiting list. Debuting in the Sydney neighborhood of Barangaroo earlier this week , Noma Australia opened its doors with a menu inspired by the restaurant 's harborside location. The coastally-driven dishes boast several varieties of oceanic plants and sea vegetables , as well as strawberry clams , sea urchin , and flame cockle. Produce items utilized include wild berries , lantana flowers , and lemon myrtle , while proteins include crocodile fat , local ants , and magpie goose. Get ready to consult your gastronomic dictionary ; here are the dishes currently featured on the menu according to eager Instagrammers ( all are subject to change before Noma Australia closes its doors on April 2 ) .
Japanese bento boxes typically contain an assortment of relatively light , healthy items like fish , vegetables , soup , and salads , along with small portions of rice , meat , or tempura. But a new lunch delivery service called Gochikuru is taking the set meal in the completely opposite direction with the release of a two-foot-wide cow-shaped box full of 10 pounds of wagyu beef from Tottori Prefecture , which is widely considered to be some of the most delectable meat in the world. The slices of cooked sirloin , prime rib , brisket , and tongue , are arranged over Kinu Musume rice , and the meal is garnished with dipping sauces , lime wedges , and wasabi. This special delivery item will set you back around $ 2,800 after sales tax. That ’ s truly a lot of money for a bento box , but if you were to split this order with nine friends , you could each feast on a pound of meat for around $ 280 — still expensive , but that price is at least in the realm of what you might spend on a splashy dinner at a steakhouse.
This week on You Can Do This ! , tips and tricks guru Clifford Endo combats all of the usual pitfalls of comfort food favorite chicken fried steak. The result is a medium rare cut of beef surrounded by the characteristic crust , and smothered with a flavor-packed all-meat gravy. Sound too good to be true ? Watch the video above to find out how to create it at home. 1 New York strip2 cloves garlic , crushed , plus 2 tablespoons minced garlic1 cup demi glace1/4 teaspoon xantham gum1/3 cup beef fat3 large eggs , whisked1 egg yolk2 cups flourOil for frying Place steak , garlic and butter in a resealable plastic bag that can withstand high temperatures. Using a large bowl of water , displace the air inside the bag by submerging the steak with the bag almost entirely sealed , leaving only a small space open with your finger inside. When the water line comes up to that edge , slowly remove your finger , sealing the last piece of the strip.
Ubiquitous curse word connoisseur Gordon Ramsay is planning to open six more restaurants in America , including venues in New Orleans and Baltimore , where he currently has no footprint. Although Ramsay ’ s camp has not released any specifics about the Baltimore or New Orleans projects , the Financial Times points out that his group operates four hit venues in Las Vegas and Atlantic City casino/resorts , so these new restaurants will likely be casual establishments along the lines of Gordon Ramsay BurGR or Gordon Ramsay Pub & Grill , and they might also be connected to gaming hubs. One of the shouty chef ’ s new Vegas projects is a restaurant inspired by his long-running Fox show Hell ’ s Kitchen. The Gordon Ramsay Group is bouncing back after a rough patch , with reported sales up three percent over the last year. Part of the company ’ s success can be attributed to the fact that Ramsay and Co. have expanded their portfolio to include more affordable establishments , many of which are run through low-risk licensing deals.
Happy birthday to Cup Noodles : the broke-college-kid staple turns 45 years old today. Invented by Japanese businessman Momofuku Ando — why yes , that is where David Chang got the name from — the instant ramen boosted Japan ’ s economy post-WWII and transformed convenience foods forever. ( There ’ s even a Cup Noodle museum in Japan. ) In today ’ s food news : Anthony Bourdain on one of his literary influences ; some people are really losing sleep over the idea of an In-N-Out veggie burger ; where Eataly might land next ; and perhaps the eggiest video you ’ ve ever seen. — 35,000 people have signed a petition urging In-N-Out to add a veggie burger to its menu , and an undetermined number of other people are extremely pissed about it. Opponents have declared the petitioners “ soft vegan nerds , ” “ liberal candyasses , ” and “ delicate snowflakes , ” among other insults. Chill out folks , it ’ s just fast food.
Lambrusco. For those seeking a red wine with extra texture , this somewhat misunderstood bubbly likely springs to mind. But Lambrusco , a traditional northern Italian mainstay , is far from the only sparkling red option. Other classic examples abound — Portugal ’ s refreshingly bitter fizzy wines made from the indigenous baga grape , northeastern Italy ’ s fruity-fresh take based on the cherry-like brachetto , and Australia ’ s robust sparkling shiraz. That 's not to mention the variety of styles and grapes encompassed by Lambrusco itself — along with the occasional U.S.-produced bottle. Surprised ? Welcome to the bona fide , if sometime elusive , world of pigmented and fizzy wines. Lambrusco is far from the only sparkling red option : Welcome to the bona fide , if sometimes elusive , world of pigmented and fizzy wines.
Drinking wine and watching Saturday Night Live are activities that go hand in hand together. So it makes perfect sense that the creators of the longest-running sketch show on television are now releasing their own brand of booze. Three of these bottles are named after popular characters from the show : Debbie Downer South Eastern Australian Chardonnay ( $ 20 ) , Stefon Beaujolais ( $ 18 ) , and the Californians Monterey County Merlot ( $ 20 ) . Those are all great sketches to name wines after , but it ’ s a shame that the Hot Tub Love-ahs don ’ t have their own bottle ( or bota bag ) . It ’ s also slightly surprising that the Californians are associated with a Central Coast merlot and not a sparkling white , and that Stefon is helping hawk beaujolais , since he ’ s really more of a vodka and Red Bull kind of guy.
As America 's finest presidential candidates criss-cross the country , one side is talking about inclusion while the other preaches a message of exclusion , and ideas of acceptance and discrimination are playing out in small , local , everyday ways. Earlier this week a woman in Richmond , Va. , claims she was fired by a local KFC restaurant manager about an hour after being hired once the manager found out she was transgender. Georgia Carter contacted a local TV station in Richmond after she received a phone call from the manager telling her not to come in for training the following day. Carter told a local reporter the restaurant 's management said they could not hire her because her driver 's license identified her as a male , and they were not sure which bathroom she could use. In response to the allegations , and after an internal investigation , KFC 's chief people officer John Kurnick released a statement to Eater :
It 's been a rough few months for Chipotle. A widespread E. coli outbreak sickened dozens of customers , and the burrito chain still has n't been able to pinpoint what caused it ; there was also that pesky norovirus disaster in Boston that made more than 100 diners ill. As the chain attempts to clean up its act and win customers back — and faces several lawsuits — it will shutter all its stores for a few hours on February 8 to talk to its employees about food safety. Miraculously , Late Night With Conan O'Brien managed to get its hands on a copy of Chipotle 's " new training video , " and it offers some insights into what may have gone so very wrong at the chain : Going forward , employees must " stop using rice scraped up from the steps of weddings , " quit using tortillas to clean their car windshields , and perhaps most importantly , discontinue the use of germ-spreading " sneeze megaphones. " If only things were that simple.
Having already created a restaurant based on the idea that people love hot sauce , iconic Louisiana brand Tabasco is going one step further. The McIlhenny Company , which produces the famous pepper sauce , is almost ready to launch its new museum , a spokesperson tells Eater. It will open next week adjacent to the company 's restaurant and headquarters on Avery Island. Officially dubbed the Tabasco Sauce Visitors Center , the new venue " will feed fans ' curiosity with an inside look into the world of Tabasco — from when the sauce was first created over a century ago , to how it 's made today and how it has impacted the culinary world. " The formal opening is scheduled for Tuesday , February 2. The McIlhenny Company opened its Tabasco-inspired restaurant , called 1868 ( the year the company was founded ) , in August. The eatery and forthcoming museum are part of a major expansion to help celebrate the company 's impending 150th anniversary. At 1868 , every dish on the menu , unsurprisingly , contains Tabasco sauce. The cuisine is straight out of a Cajun and Creole cookbook — again , no surprise here.
Dining options at the University of Pennsylvania just keep getting better. A new food hall , open to the public , is slated to make its debut on campus early next year with a branch of Mike Solomonov ’ s Goldie , plus Kensington Quarters , Little Baby ’ s Ice Cream , Pitruco Pizza , and The Juice Merchant Juicery and Caf é . Penn Food Hall , at 34th and Walnut streets , will replace the former Moravian Food Court. Two additional to-be-announced tenants will join that all-star lineup. The 10,000-square-foot food hall will be open for breakfast , lunch , and dinner daily , with seats for 174. Don ’ t expect a standard food court look — each vendor will design the front of their kiosk. Vegan falafel and shake shop Goldie opened earlier this year on Sansom Street above Solomonov and Steve Cook ’ s Rooster Soup Co. They ’ re also planning an outpost of Goldie in the Fairmount Whole Foods.
In San Francisco , the hottest museum of 2018 , whose initial six-month run sold out entirely in just 90 minutes , featured exhibits like a unicorn sculpture in a rainbow-painted room ( designed to celebrate San Francisco ’ s “ beautiful message of cohesion , diversity , and inclusivity , ” naturally ) and a room with giant fake popsicles stuck into the walls ( an “ homage ” to the ice cream truck ) . One of the main attractions at a museum that debuted this fall in Manhattan allowed guests to take their photos in front of glowing diner signs that read “ Ranch , ” referencing not a tract of land but an allegiance to ranch dressing , that most contentious of pizza condiments. These stunty Museums — of Ice Cream , of Pizza , and other , more forsaken objects of devotion , including avocados and “ cheat day foods ” — are not museums. And they need to stop.
The Michelin Man is a familiar sight on Thai highways : It ’ s a popular decoration on freight trucks , where glow-in-the-dark statuettes of the cheery tire mascot wai ( a gesture where palms are pressed together as a greeting or sign of respect ) at passing motorists. Now the French tire company is preparing to make its mark on Bangkok restaurants , announcing in February that the city ’ s Michelin Guide will arrive by the end of 2017. This expansion is backed by the Tourism Authority of Thailand ( TAT ) , who have pledged five years of financial support in the hope that Michelin will attract tourists and legitimize the country ’ s culinary offerings. Historically , Michelin ’ s two- and three-star picks have almost exclusively gone to restaurants with tasting menus ( like New York ’ s two-star Momofuku Ko or the three-star Restaurant at Meadowood in California ’ s wine country ) , with one-star selections including high-end cuisine along with “ affordable ” options like the Breslin in New York — “ if you can consider a $ 27 burger affordable , ” says Ryan Sutton , Eater ’ s New York-based dining critic and go-to Michelin prognosticator.
NYC restaurateur , Shake Shack founder , and millionaire Danny Meyer is having a good week. He ’ s invested in a home-cooked food delivery start-up , introduced paid parental leave for all of his employees , and today almost single-handedly made the Apple Watch — a very expensive trophy gadget at best — relevant. In an announcement made moments ago at the TechTable Summit , representatives from Meyer ’ s Union Square Hospitality Group and Resy — the reservation system start-up founded by ( Eater co-founder ) Ben Leventhal , Michael Montero , and Gary Vaynerchuk — confirmed a partnership that would integrate the Apple Watch into front-of-house restaurant service. When Meyer ’ s 30-year-old Union Square Cafe reopens in Manhattan next month , every floor manager and sommelier will be wearing an Apple Watch. And when a VIP walks through the front door , someone orders a bottle of wine , a new table is seated , a guest waits too long to order her or his drink , or a menu item runs out , every manager will get an alert via the tiny computer attached to their wrist.
The AP 's report centers on a popular Iranian restaurant chain , Shayah , that has 13 locations in Saudi Arabia , mostly in the capital city of Riyadh. The Saudi-owned company originally employed Iranian chefs who taught their Saudi counterparts how to prepare Iranian dishes like saffron rice and lamb skewers , but now the restaurant 's general manager says all its Iranian employees have left the country ; these days , Iranians would be unable to obtain work visas.
Last summer , I was at the beach when I saw a plane towing a banner for Vintage seltzer , the stalwart bodega brand. Not long before that , I was accosted by photographs of Topo Chico bottles sweating so lasciviously that the pages of the magazine almost stuck together. And every time I went to the supermarket , the seltzer displays seemed a little more boundless , kudzuing from their roots down near the wine section into end-of-aisle structures vast enough to shelter a small city. That ’ s to say nothing of the inescapable LaCroix memes , customized LaCroix can generators , unaffiliated , slogan-emblazoned LaCroix t-shirts , self-referential Tumblr LaCroix flavor controversies , and , should one have stumbled upon the # livelacroix hashtag , lots and lots of crowdsourced content of beautiful millennial LaCroix drinkers doing beautiful millennial things , like eating breakfast in bed while wearing a hat. If we somehow didn ’ t reach peak seltzer then , we were close.
Good luck finding a kebab shop in Florence ’ s historic quarter , a plate of fried rice in Verona , or a burger in the tony Italian beachfront town of Forte dei Marmi. Since 2009 , town governments throughout Italy have been banning “ foreign ” or “ ethnic ” food shops from opening up , with varying explanations. Last year , Florence ’ s government was worried that the city ’ s Italian culture was being watered down through the proliferation of foreign food. “ Mass-produced foods are replacing our traditional trattorias and historic food shops. We have to put an end to it , ” Florence ’ s mayor Dario Nardiella told an Italian newspaper. In northern Italy , Verona ’ s mayor told the Telegraph that a provision limiting most “ ethnic ” or deep-fried food would result in “ no more openings of establishments that sell food prepared in a way that could impact the decorum of our city. ” Reportedly , Venice is also considering one of these so-called UNESCO laws , which preserve and protect historic cities from outside influence.
Customers were reporting upwards of three hour-long waits at some bakeries in Hamtramck this morning as patrons from from across the region gathered to take part in the annual Paczki Day tradition of stand and wait. While in past years Fat Tuesday has fallen in the midst of an extreme cold snap or snow storm , 2017 ’ s crowds lucked out with light rain showers and relatively mild temperatures. At New Martha Washington Bakery and New Palace Bakery lines snaked through shops , out the door , and clear down full city blocks. Inside bakery staff rushed to fold boxes , fill orders , and generally get the crush of customers out the door as quickly as possible. Eater photographers Michelle and Chris Gerard stopped by metro Detroit ’ s traditional fried Polish pastry epicenter today to scope out the scene. Check out the insane morning rush photos in the gallery below.
It should be common knowledge that when dining out in America , you tip your server. Sure , tipping is inherently exploitative , but as long as tipped minimum wages exist , you don ’ t get to opt out. But how much ? People are eating out more and more at restaurants that fall outside of the full-service box , and it ’ s not always entirely clear how they should adapt tips to these new dining styles. Plus , with the advent of Square and other mobile tipping platforms that prompt customers to tip at the register with either a percentage or dollar amount , the whole business can feel a bit awkward. But it doesn ’ t have to be. Here ’ s what to tip in just about any situation , according to dining experts and the people for whom tips really matter. If you ’ re paying with a credit card , it ’ s absolutely fine to leave the tip on the credit card.
Lawsuits against fast-food restaurants have become relatively common since an infamous 1993 case where a woman sued McDonald ’ s and won $ 2.86 million after spilling nearly-boiling hot coffee on herself. ( Given her fairly major injuries , the case actually had a lot more merit than that description would suggest. ) Since then , Starbucks has been on the receiving end of similar hot coffee lawsuits — in the last two years alone , two separate plaintiffs have blamed injuries on faulty lids on Starbucks coffee. Although one was successful , the damages have never come close to the millions awarded in the older McDonald ’ s case. Below the well-publicized hot coffee lawsuits there ’ s a whole sub-strain of even more ridiculous claims against fast-food restaurants , from dubious claims of chains misleading customers , to arguments that a restaurant allowed someone to eat something they really shouldn ’ t. Here are five of the most notable from recent years.
ChefSteps — the Seattle-based food and technology company , kitchen tricks ninjas , and sous vide fanatics — put their favorite meat preparation to the test again , this time with pre-packaged bacon. Bacon from your local grocery store is ready to be sous vide 'd right from the refrigerated section because it 's already vacuum sealed in plastic. Plopping it in the night before you want to eat it means it will cook slowly and perfectly while you sleep , and only require a quick outside sear in the morning. ChefSteps co-founder Grant Crilly recommends pan-searing on one side to get a crispy , crunchy edge , but to leave the other side ( already fully cooked via sous vide ) more chewy , achieving the ideal , elusive bacon balance. For an extra crispy variety , sear both sides. Watch the video above for a visual how-to , plus follow along with the recipe here.
Sad news for the restaurant world today : Tom Forkner , the founder of iconic all-night diner chain Waffle House , died on Thursday at the age of 98. Forkner ’ s death follows quickly on the heels of that of his co-founder , Joe Rogers Sr. , who died back in March at 97. Forker and Rogers Sr. , who were neighbors , opened the very first Waffle House in Avondale Estates , Georgia , in 1955 , deciding on the Waffle House moniker because waffles were the highest-margin items on the menu. Following rapid growth in the ’ 70s and ’ 80s , the 24-hour restaurant now has close to 2,000 locations throughout the Southern United States where inexpensive breakfasts and other comfort food is prepared to order right in front of customers — including the famous hash browns , available scattered , smothered , covered , chunked , and any number of other ways.
London-based startup and major food delivery player Deliveroo just launched an intriguing new initiative : It 's now providing kitchen space for its restaurant partners in an effort to serve more customers , reports TechCrunch. Called RooBox , the intention of the off-site kitchens is to " [ bring ] restaurant brands to areas of London that have a large residential population but are currently underserved in terms of available restaurants via the Deliveroo app. " Deliveroo specializes in delivery from " premium " restaurants that would n't typically offer takeout , including at least one Michelin-starred restaurant. The company only delivers food within a 2 kilometer ( 1.25 mile ) radius of each restaurant to ensure it arrives hot and fresh , but that means depending on where a customer lives , their options can be limited or even nonexistent. By providing restaurants with equipped kitchens in areas of London that are n't rife with restaurants — or at least , not the kind of restaurants Deliveroo partners with — the company can expand its customer base.
Culinary world hero Alton Brown just checked off another item on the ol ’ bucket list : He made it on Broadway. The Good Eats mastermind brought his Eat Your Science live tour to Manhattan ’ s Barrymore Theater for just one week , concluding with a final performance on Sunday night. And while Broadway has seen a bit of culinary-related action recently — such as Fully Committed , the one-man show in which Jesse Tyler Ferguson comedically chronicles the scene at a hot NYC restaurant , and Waitress , featuring the aroma of fresh-baked pies — it ’ s safe to say this was the first time a Broadway performer has mixed up pumpkin spice cocktails , or popped popcorn in a vessel resembling a gigantic rocket ship. Brown ’ s two-and-a-half-hour show also included liquid nitrogen snow cones , a timely song about brining turkeys , and plenty of audience participation : While texting during a Broadway show would typically be considered a major breach of theater etiquette , Brown encouraged it , asking the audience to tweet questions that he then tackled during the show.
Dinner at Duna involves very few decisions , and for this we should be grateful. We ’ ve got enough to think about as we scroll endlessly , depressingly , through our Trump-strewn newsfeeds all day. Come dinnertime , it ’ s comforting to walk into a restaurant that ’ s homey and hearty and Hungarian — with a menu about as brief as a tweet. It ’ s a little less comforting to have to stand in line and order at the counter while listening to people ask questions like “ How ’ s the riesling ? ” and “ How many dips should we order ? ” ( My answer , after trying all five : all five. ) Then survey the room for an open table. Then carry over your own glasses and carafe. And then have everything you ordered — especially when you ordered just about everything — come in rapid succession , like a blitzkrieg , mere seconds after your wine arrives.
Koreatown has long been a place for regional specialties , and Jae Bu Do in Los Angeles , named after a tiny island off the west coast of the Korean Peninsula , is one of the rare places where one can find grilled tabletop shellfish. Commonly called jogaegui , this Korean-style clam bake is really more of a cookout , with a parade of amazingly fresh clams , oysters , abalone , shrimp , and lobster getting grilled over charcoal. In Korea , the soju and beer-infused meal is often enjoyed near the seaside , but the country ’ s love affair with shellfish dates back thousands of years. While livestock like beef and pork play a major part in Korean cuisine , shellfish abounds in three different directions , which means eating shellfish like this was more of a commoner ’ s meal. In this episode of K-Town , host Matthew Kang joins Dining on a Dime host Lucas Peterson for one of the most epic displays of seafood in LA ’ s Koreatown. Together they ponder the various delicacies and finish the meal with slippery hagfish , a mysterious creature that resembles a tiny eel.
As Vermont gears up to implement new mandatory GMO labeling , the world ’ s largest soft drink producer is preparing to pull its products from store shelves , Bloomberg reports. The new law , which is the first of its kind in the nation , requires mandatory labeling on foods containing GMOs. While the company ’ s top products such as Coke , Diet Coke , and Coke Zero would stay on the shelves after the new law goes into effect July 1 , some of its smaller brands may end up on a Vermont hiatus to delay having to make labeling changes. Coca-Cola sells more than 100 different beverage brands in the U.S. ; smaller brands include Mello Yello , Inca Kola , Pibb Extra , and Fruitopia , to name a few. In the meantime , a lengthy and heated debate over GMOs has been brewing in Congress. A new bipartisan plan proposed last week in the Senate would be considerably less stringent than the forthcoming Vermont law , which requires even biotech ingredients to bear a genetic modification label. Instead , Congress wants to use a broader range of GMO disclosure method that could run the gamut from scannable QR codes to 800-numbers and websites , instead of just standard labeling on the product itself. The measure would also exempt meat and egg products from labeling regulations.
In the dreary , dystopian future when brands rule the world , the best restaurant in America 's dining capital of New York City might be run by PepsiCo. Or maybe that will happen later this year when the soft drink giant opens Kola House in the city 's Chelsea neighborhood. Kola House. Pepsi is opening a New York restaurant called Kola House , reports the Times. Kola House. PepsiCo has always tried to separate itself from rival Coca-Cola by marketing to the most cutting edge of Americans. It 's responsible for bringing Crystal Pepsi into this world , and a new restaurant appears to be the company 's latest attempt to capture Generation Next. PepsiCo chief marketing officer Seth Kaufman told the Times , " This is n't a pop-up. This is something much bigger than that. " The company has n't decided on a menu or executive chef yet , but NYC bartender Alex Ott reportedly will consult on cocktails. Expect libations to be made with Caleb 's Kola , PepsiCo 's high-brow , millennial-targeting line of soda. There 's no projected opening date yet , but it 's on track to begin service this spring. Kola House wo n't be slapped with a bunch of Pepsi signage and memorabilia , but instead will include " a logo here or there , nothing too obvious. "
In this week ’ s episode of Dining on a Dime , host Lucas Peterson continues his jaunt through greater Seattle with a stop for lunch at Il Corvo in Pioneer Square in the city 's downtown area. Pioneer Square is where the original founders of Seattle settled in the 1850s and was once the heart of a booming metropolis. Il Corvo is different than most restaurants in that it ’ s only open for lunch , and only on weekdays — it ’ s closed all other times. That makes the crowds clamor for its rotating menu of pastas even more. The pasta dishes are of good quality and they ’ re inexpensive — pretty much everything is under $ 10. Other items like prosciutto , pickles , and homemade focaccia help round out the menu. Peterson samples ( nearly ) everything they have to offer , wading through the long line of people to see what one of Seattle ’ s favorite lunch spots is all about.
To kick off the ninth season of his hit travel show Parts Unknown , Anthony Bourdain spends some time eating and drinking his way through the Latino communities of Los Angeles. In a new clip on Explore Parts Unknown , the show ’ s online counterpart , Bourdain remarks : “ We ’ ve done a show here before and we ’ re doing it again. But this time , we ’ re going to pretend that nobody lives in LA but Mexicans , Chicanos , and Latinos. ” Tony ’ s dining companions on this trip include Machete star Danny Trejo , Broken Spanish chef Ray Garcia , tattoo artist Mister Cartoon , comedian Al Madrigal , and OC Weekly editor Gustavo Arellano. In some of the teasers for this new episode , you can see Tony and his pals eating taquitos at Cielito Lindo on Olvera Street , and barbacoa and moles at Oaxacan staple Gish Bac Restaurant.
A new video series from Foodbeast gives lovable comfort food the Chef 's Table treatment. The first installment of the new mocumentary series Jeff 's Table gets up close and personal with the construction of the perfect peanut butter and jelly sandwich. The sounds of classical music — the same soundtrack Chef 's Table uses — accompany visuals of the sandwich-making process and winning lines , like " there 's a feeling of elation when you create something average , " and , " I do n't do this for anyone else. I make it for me. 'Cause I do n't like to share. " Jeff 's Table 's inspiration , Chef 's Table , is the acclaimed Netflix show from filmmaker David Gelb that returns for its third season on September 2. The show does for food what Planet Earth did for the far reaches of the globe : picks it apart and dresses it up for a close-up. Watch , learn , and laugh.
“ Barbados is a culinary gem of the region , ” says writer , editor , and self-described proud Bajan Tamara Best of the Caribbean island. “ Don ’ t be fooled by its size. At 166 square miles , the island has plenty to offer : outdoor food markets , restaurants perched seaside , great bakeries hiding in plain sight , and much more. ” For those looking for a traditional taste of Barbados , Best recommends two dishes : “ Don ’ t leave the island without trying flying fish or pudding and souse , a local delicacy made of various pig parts served with sweet potato pudding , typically eaten on Saturdays. ” Here now , and in geographic order , the 18 essential restaurants of Barbados : Price per person , excluding alcohol $ = Less than 30 BDS ( Less than $ 15 USD ) $ $ = 30-80 BDS ( $ 15-40 USD ) $ $ $ = 80-160 BDS ( $ 40 -80 USD ) $ $ $ $ = More than 160 BDS ( $ 80 )
Dining on a Dime is going international — again. In the upcoming new season of host Lucas Peterson ’ s never-ending cheap eats adventure , he and the crew cross the Atlantic to London , where Peterson embarked on a quest to learn more about traditional English fare , as well as “ food that represents the cultural diversity of the population , ” he says. What does that translate to ? Yes , there ’ s eel pie and fish and chips , but also beigals with salt beef , raclette ( which might be the world ’ s best way to eat cheese ) , and Malaysian/Indonesian food at the Roti King , which ( spoiler ! ) Peterson calls “ probably the best food on the trip. ” Watch the trailer above and get excited for Dining on a Dime : London , airing each DAYTK on YouTube and right here on Eater. Click here to watch all of last season of Dining on a Dime | Like Eater on Facebook to never miss a video
Caribbean food is king on Utica Avenue in Brooklyn ’ s Crown Heights neighborhood. Walking on the strip between Eastern Parkway and Empire Boulevard , it ’ s common to see a cloud of smoke puffing from black barrels on the curb. Chefs at Jamaican take-out restaurants use this method to grill jerk chicken , an island staple , packing the small-sized meals into a white styrofoam box , with a side of rice and peas , fried sweet plantains , and cabbage. I like my jerk hot , so I always request extra sauce. Growing up as a first-generation Jamaican-American in Brooklyn meant food like this was always in walking distance. Since the early 1900s , thousands of Jamaicans have left the island seeking economic stability , marking the beginning of the Jamaican diaspora in America , U.K , Canada , and beyond. The majority settled in melting-pot cities London , New York City , and Toronto ; in the U.S. , there ’ s a large population in South Florida , as well. Thanks to these movements , Jamaican cuisine is sprinkled throughout these regions , often in enclaves like Crown Heights , and the cuisine offered at take-outs in the diaspora generally remains true to the island ’ s foodways.
In this episode of The Meat Show , host Nick Solares continues on his mission to sample all of London ’ s most notable meats. The next stop is a visit to Pitt Cue Co. to try what Nick Solares calls “ one of the great pork chops in the world. ” Pitt Cue Co. is all about pigs. When co-owners Jamie Berger and Tom Adams got started , Pitt Cue Co. was just a seasonal food stand serving pulled pork sandwiches. Over the years , it has evolved into a small restaurant in Soho that ’ s defining the course of British barbecue. The meat is supplied by a farm in Cornwall run by Adams. Solares samples a pulled pork sandwich and bone marrow mash , but the dish that really steals his heart is the giant pork chop. Solares describes the experience : “ I ’ m having a moment with this pork chop [ ... ] it ’ s so tender it ’ s almost like sushi , ” but with a “ gentle sweet pork finish. ” Check out the video above to witness the entire sensual pork chop experience.
Talk to a fisherman anywhere in the world and it won ’ t be long before you ’ ll hear the tales : the first catch , the one that got away , the really big one. On Tonle Sap Lake , the largest body of freshwater in Southeast Asia , the fish stories are divided into then and now. The old stories go like this : In 1992 , Yem Yun caught a 220-pound Mekong giant Catfish. How big was it ? So big , his boat nearly collapsed. So big , no one dared to buy it , so Yun cut it up and dried it out and the entire village feasted for a week. Or : When Sok Chetra was young , the fish in the lake were so plentiful they jumped into her boat. Or , even just : Ly Yoeu used to be able to support his family from fishing alone. The new stories are like this one , shouted from the water by a passing fisherman : “ I ’ m concerned that if there are no fish , I will not eat. ”
Spring restaurant season is fully upon us. The Beard Awards are happening. And restaurants put on most anticipated roundups many months ago are finally opening to the public. Next up , Junebaby in Seattle. 1. Edouardo Jordan is a name you should know. Backstory time : Jordan grew up in Florida , and identifies as Southern , tracing his family roots through Georgia. After culinary school , he apprenticed at the French Laundry before landing in the Per Se kitchen. He then worked at Lincoln in NYC , before heading to Seattle , where he spent years as the chef de cuisine of the now-closed Bar Sajor. In 2015 , he opened his debut restaurant , Salare , in a relatively quiet Seattle neighborhood. For many outside of Seattle , Jordan came into national focus with his as-told-to with Lucky Peach in 2016 , in which he candidly spoke about the challenges and assumptions he faces as a black man in the restaurant world.
Humans have long been warned about the dangers of eating unbaked cookie dough , due to the possible salmonella danger from raw eggs. Of course , that 's generally only a problem for young kids , the elderly , or people with compromised immune systems ; the rest of us are free to lick beaters with wild abandon. Now , though , the Food & Drug Administration says there 's something else to worry about when it comes to cookie dough : the flour. A new consumer update from the FDA warns no one should be eating raw dough due to flour that could be contaminated with harmful E. coli. The FDA points to a recent General Mills recall affecting 10 million pounds of flour sold under the brand names Gold Medal and Signature Kitchen 's ; the products were linked to an E. coli outbreak that sickened dozens of people across the country. Common E. coli symptoms include bloody diarrhea and stomach cramps , though most people recover within a week. Is delicious raw cookie dough worth days of bloody diarrhea ? That depends on what recipe you use , probably.
Sam Beall , the proprietor of Blackberry Farm in Walland , Tenn. ( about 30 miles south of Knoxville ) , died late yesterday in a skiing accident in Colorado. Beall was 39. From a release : " The Beall family and the Blackberry Farm team are understandably shocked by this heartbreaking news about the man they loved dearly as a son , brother , father , friend and host. They welcome the thoughts and prayers of all those whose lives were touched by Sam 's hospitable nature , visionary leadership and adventurous spirit. They also request privacy for the Beall family during this difficult time. " Though he was far from a household name , Beall 's presence in the food world was gentle but impactful. His father , Sandy Beall , founded Ruby Tuesday in 1972. In 1976 , Sandy and his wife Kreis purchased Blackberry Farm and began renovations and redesigns in order to turn it into a luxury lodge and farm ; it is today a designated member of the Relais & Chateaux fellowship.
A norovirus outbreak affecting more than 390 people is linked to the New Theatre Restaurant in Overland Park , Kan. , the state 's Department of Health & Environment announced Thursday. Officials say the illnesses were first reported by people who ate at the dinner theater venue on January 17. The health department is seeking information from anyone who has eaten at the New Theatre since January 15. The Kansas City Star reports the restaurant is cooperating with the investigation , and the outbreak may be linked to a man who was showing signs of illness on January 17. Three employees are confirmed to have norovirus , and they all served the man in question. The Kansas Department of Agriculture reportedly conducted an inspection at the restaurant on January 20 , finding seven " priority violations. " Among the issues were an employee who handled a raw chicken tray with gloved hands and then handled ready-to-eat fried chicken without washing hands or changing gloves.
For a man whose lyrics include dozens of references to brands like Gucci and Ferrari , Kanye West ’ s food choices are surprisingly pedestrian. Like many Americans , he loves burgers , fries , and McNuggets. So much so , in fact , that he took to Twitter today to espouse his love for the brand that popularized them : McDonald ’ s. McDonalds is my favorite brand This wasn ’ t the first time he has declared his love for the fast food giant. Over the years , Yeezy has made it expressly clear that he has a soft spot for the golden arches. Absolutely. Last year , he swung through the drive-thru in a $ 750,000 Lamborghini. It ’ s unclear what he ordered , but he was clearly excited about it. According to The Daily Mail , the famously stoic rapper was seen smiling as he took his food. kanye west getting mcdonalds drive-thru in his lamborghini pic.twitter.com/AthGwNWUBR
Lily Wen steps out of her pickup truck and walks straight into the tropical jungle of Taitung , Taiwan , rummaging through the understory to find what she needs. She spots a vine with heart-shaped , glossy , dark green leaves wrapped around the truck of the paper mulberry tree. Dangaw ( Piper betle ) is the vine ’ s name in the Rukai language. Laoye 荖 葉 is its Mandarin name. With a distinct peppery and slightly spicy aroma , dangaw is usually cooked in stews. It ’ s considered a culinary delicacy and is one of Wen ’ s favorites. She pulls up a bunch , throws it in the back of her pickup truck , and motions to the forest around her. “ I have a food map in my head of the forest , ” she says in Chinese , smiling. “ Before , we all did. ” She drives back to her restaurant and begins picking the leaves off the vine. Today , she ’ ll be making chicken soup flavored with dangaw for her customers.
Shake Shack ’ s global expansion now includes more than just new restaurants. The New York-based burger chain is officially in the business of room service , kicking off in-room dining at the Chicago Athletic Association hotel today , according to a release. Guests staying in any of the hotel ’ s 241 rooms are able to order from the restaurant ’ s full menu. Shake Shack opened in the hotel ’ s first-floor lobby in May 2015 and sources ingredients from local producers in Chicago. The menu is available for room service from 3 p.m. to 10 : 30 p.m. each day. Continuing its locally focused custom , Shake Shack has special Chicago-inspired items available : the Shack-ago Dog , which comes with Rick ’ s Picks Shack relish , onion , cucumber , pickle , tomato , sport pepper , celery salt , and mustard ; and the Publican Pork Sausage , served with cheddar and American cheese sauce and ShackMeister Ale-marinated shallots.
If New York City Council Member Ritchie J. Torres has his way , the growing trend of cashless restaurants — establishments that accept payment only in plastic and digital forms — will be snuffed out. Torres plans to introduce legislation before his fellow city council members that , if passed , would levy fines on any local businesses that refused to accept paper currency. “ I started coming across coffee shops and caf é s that were exclusively cashless and I thought : But what if I was a low-income New Yorker who has no access to a card ? ” he says in a Q&A with Grub Street. “ I thought about it more and realized that even if a policy seems neutral in theory , it can be racially exclusionary in practice. Therein lies the problem with card-only policies. I see it as a way to gentrify the marketplace. ”
Christine Flynn — Executive Chef at Toronto 's iQ Food Co. — has quite an imagination... and , an alternate persona. Until today , she was perhaps more widely known as the Instagram celebrity Jacques La Merde. Poking fun at chef bros and anyone who takes themselves too seriously , Flynn created , photographed , a posted a photo of a carefully plated dish every few days. The dishes were always composed of ingredients found at fast food restaurants , corner stores , vending machines , or the junk food aisle. Eater has been trying to guess Flynn 's identity for months , but tonight " the shit " hit the fan and all is revealed on Top Chef. Says Flynn in an email , " I joke about how great my b-rolodex has gotten this year , but actually , I 'm more excited about building an incredible FEMPIRE ! ! ! ! ! " Here 's Eater 's exclusive interview with the woman , the myth , the legend.
I was 22 when my mother handed me the first kitchen appliance that was ever my very own : her old Crock-Pot , a ceramic white oval that had long since yellowed , with a delicate blue floral pattern , probably purchased around 1980. It had belonged to her mother , my mom told me when I moved into my first apartment. Its lid was long gone but aluminum foil would do just fine , and someday , when I finally got interested in cooking , maybe it would come in handy. As mothers often are , she was right ; after six months of frozen Healthy Choice dinners , I started cooking variation after variation of chicken breast in the aging Crock-Pot , surprised and delighted at how little effort could produce something so thoroughly resembling an actual homemade meal. Lemon garlic chicken , barbecue beer chicken , eight-hour coq au vin ; soon , considering myself something of a Crock-Pot maestro , I decided to upgrade to a new one. But in late 2012 , when I began exploring the market for Crock-Pots , now generally known by the trendier generic term “ slow cooker , ” none of the best-selling varieties even remotely resembled my rotund electric Mrs. Potts. Instead , I found a vast selection of chrome and matte-black products that looked like they ’ d just rolled off the assembly line at the Axe body spray factory.
World-renowned chef Ren é Redzepi is taking Noma , his iconic Copenhagen restaurant , on the road again with a six-week pop-up in Mexico , where Redzepi will charge $ 600 a head for dinner. Now the chef has revealed plans to take some of the sting out of exorbitantly priced meals in an impoverished country. Noma : Mexico will offer scholarships and feed local culinary students for free. “ Then , we are also very happy to announce that we are creating a scholarship fund to allow Mexican culinary students to travel to Copenhagen and intern with both Noma and Hija de Sanchez [ a Copenhagen taco stand from former Noma pastry chef Rosio Sanchez ] , ” Redzepi writes on the Noma blog. “ We will set up English classes beforehand , take care of travel , accommodation , and give a per diem. ” The pop-up will serve dinner only for the first month , but it will offer free lunch to culinary students during its final two weeks. Redzepi says he previously gave the idea of Noma scholarships a try , and he has been “ waiting for the right moment to have a project where we can continue fostering our relationship to Mexico , and help give opportunity to young talents. ” For such a noble venture , it ’ s surprising the program wasn ’ t announced along with the initial plans for Noma : Mexico. Could this be a response to criticism of the pop-up ’ s steep prices in a nation where the average daily wage is $ 15 ?
A burglar who broke into a Tennessee restaurant over the weekend left empty-handed , but at least they got their thirst quenched. The intruder 's target was Tomato Head restaurant in Knoxville , as WBIR reports. The suspect forced open the restaurant 's cash register only to find it empty , a rep for the Knoxville Police Department tells Eater via email ; realizing he or she was n't going to come away with any cash , the parched burglar apparently sought solace in a Dale 's Pale Ale , imbibing in a can of the popular beer from Colorado-based brewery Oskar Blues before taking off. The thief clearly was n't hungry , because nothing else was taken except for the beer , Knoxville PD says , and the cash register was the only thing disturbed. The unknown thief is n't the first to break and enter in search of sustenance : Some burger bandits in the UK broke into a soccer clubhouse and cooked themselves a meal , even leaving a note of thanks for the tasty treats ( along with nearly $ 1,500 of damage ) in their wake. In another case , a raccoon with an apparent thirst for booze broke into an alcohol storage warehouse and drank a little too much.
Clubstaurants , tourist traps , and celebrity chef-owned restaurants dominated the rankings for 2017 ’ s highest-grossing independent restaurants in the U.S. The number one spot on this year ’ s rankings once again went to Tao in Las Vegas , which pulled in a cool $ 42.4 million over the course of 2016. The numbers show a slight drop in gross earnings from the 2015 report , where Tao reportedly earned $ 47.9 million. The list compiled by Restaurant Business features 100 top-grossing independent restaurants , defined as ones with no more than five locations. However , per the publication ’ s methodology additional restaurants could qualify if they share the name of a chain but are owned separately. That could , for example , explain why no less than seven Tao Group properties are featured on the list. It should be noted that the rankings are “ based on gross 2016 food and beverage sales ” gathered through surveys , meaning the numbers are self-reported. When data was not provided , Restaurant Business “ estimated based on public information , similar concepts , and other factors. ”
The Eater Awards celebrate the restaurants , chefs , and projects that truly made their mark across cities in 2017. One of the most prestigious categories is Restaurant of the Year , which highlights that one destination that defined the dining scene in a particular city this calendar year. What do those places look like across the country ? In Austin , it ’ s somewhere like Kemuri Tatsu-ya , which brings together the Texas upbringing and the Japanese roots of its ownership team ( also behind beloved noodle house Ramen Tastu-ya ) . Charleston saw something truly unique and quirky in the arrival of Bar Normandy , a destination that can feel like a casual gathering , a fine-dining restaurant experience , and a fabulous dinner party all in one. Meanwhile , Himitsu has turned into something truly special in Washington , D.C. ’ s Petworth neighborhood , a cozy restaurant that still can convince customers to wait for hours for its refined , playful , Asian-influenced dishes. And Philadelphia ’ s show-stopper arguably isn ’ t a restaurant at all : Palizzi Social Club is a private dinner club just about everyone is dying to get into these days.
Germany has long taken pride in its beer industry , boasting a 500-year-old purity law that regulates what can and ca n't go into suds produced in the country. But it appears German beer might not be as pure as it seems. Traces of glyphosate , a widely used herbicide , have been found in the country 's 14 most popular brews , Reuters reports. Glyphosate is the key ingredient in Roundup , a popular weed killer developed by American agrochemical company Monsanto. The Food and Drug Administration recently announced it would begin testing produce for the herbicide in certain types of produce because it 's been found to be a possible carcinogen. Last March , experts at the World Health Organization concluded glyphosate " probably " causes cancer in humans. The Munich Environmental Institute , an activist and investigative group , discovered traces of the herbicide in the country 's beer. But , industry and governmental organizations have pushed back on the findings. Germany 's Federal Institute for Risk said the amount of glyphosate found does not pose a risk : " An adult would have to drink around 1,000 liters ( 264 U.S. gallons ) of beer a day to ingest enough quantities to be harmful for health. " The environmental group claims it found traces above the 0.1 microgram limit allowed in drinking water.
An Australian burger chain is promising to provide customers with free burgers for life , with one major catch : They have to change their last names to " Burger , " the Telegraph reports. Mr Burger , which has a number of brick-and-mortar locations as well as food trucks,has pledged to give away one burger a day for as long as people retain the name. As in any civilized society , there are rules : People must be over 18 and have to legally change their surnames. The chain will even cover the application fee for people who send in an email with a copy of the name change form by July 31. You ’ re somewhat out of luck if your name is already Burger — though Mr Burger says it will provide some free food vouchers to the existing Burgers of the world if they so desire , according to the Telegraph. Other past free food promotions requiring even more permanent committments have included a food truck in Texas that offered gratis food to customers who got pizza tattoos , and a Scotland restaurant that gave a woman won a year of free curry for getting a tattoo of its name.
Of course Guy Fieri was at Coachella. Of course he 's Lea Michele 's hero. Of course Lea Michele was a guest judge on Top Chef in 2013. Of course Lea Michele wrote a lifestyle book back in 2014 in which she wrote , " I never treat my body like a garbage disposal and instead try to feed it only the best possible food. " Of course Guy Fieri likes to make nachos in a garbage can. # TBT to meeting my hero @ GuyFieri pic.twitter.com/o3wbg8ZpJ5 When he saw Michele 's tweet , Fieri saw it as a business opportunity , businessman that he is. . @ msleamichele Great to meet ya girl ! When are ya gon na come judge # GroceryGames ? ? The former Glee star is , or at one point was , a vegetarian. Fortunately , diners , drive-ins , and dives often serve salads and other vegetarian fare. No word on whether Leah wants another cooking show judging gig , but at least the two will be Coachella besties forever.
As Trump funnels his political energy toward dropping bombs and attempting to build a border wall , all is not well inside his hotel empire : A once-popular pricey sushi restaurant inside the Trump SoHo Hotel in Manhattan will close by mid-June , citing a major drop-off in business since the alleged billionaire won the election , Grub Street reports. Hotel restaurant Koi — an international , pan-Asian upscale chain in the vein of Buddakan or Tao — plans to shutter June 18 , saying traffic has been down significantly since Election Day. Apparently , many people simply don ’ t want to patronize anything with “ Trump ” in the name. Restaurant staffers tell Grub Street the dining room is frequently as much as 70 percent empty — one server says even “ the Kardashians stopped coming ” — and some have had to pick up second jobs to make ends meet.
“ I want this to be the unifying sushi that anyone can eat , but nobody wants to eat , ” says chef Francis , the proprietor of Kuko , Portland ’ s only restaurant specializing in airport-style sushi. His goal is to serve the “ most borderline not-sushi sushi in the world. ” He also wants to serve sushi that makes his guests wonder if they ’ re “ eating bits of plastic. ” The chef , played by Fred Armisen , was inspired to open his restaurant by a meal at the Denver airport , where he first discovered sushi with “ a fishy , sweet-for-some-reason flavor ” that crumbled in his hands. “ I want to make it like we have no love for it , ” the chef explains. Francis is the star of Portlandia ’ s hilarious Chef ’ s Table parody , which references every stylistic trademark of David Gelb ’ s hit Netflix series in under 90 seconds. This clip has everything : a candid origin story , shots of a chef walking through nature , a frenetic dinner service , and lots of intense classical music. Bravo , Portlandia :
After Amazon bought Whole Foods last year , it began selling the grocer ’ s private-label 365 products on its site , and the brand quickly became one of the e-commerce giant ’ s biggest sellers. Now , the cross-marketing is being taken offline : Amazon is hawking its goods in Whole Foods parking lots. Amazon ’ s Treasure Truck has been around since 2016 , and as Gizmodo notes , parks at random locations and then texts customers who have signed up to get alerts about deals. Shoppers pay for the item online and then visit the truck to pick up the item ( such as heavily discounted GoPro cameras , to name one example ) . Now , the truck will visit Whole Foods parking lots across the country , presumably selling things that Whole Foods shoppers might be interested in : The first deal involves cultishly adored cooking appliance the Instant Pot , and shoppers who buy one will also get a coupon for $ 10 off a $ 40 purchase at Whole Foods , encouraging further spending. Interested parties can sign up to receive text notifications about Treasure Trucks in their area via Amazon ’ s site.
Will people ever stop using receipts to be jerks to each other ? A server in Oklahoma had an unpleasant end to a shift when a customer left a nasty note instead of a tip , KFOR reports. Taylor Stewart , who works at an IHOP in the city of Enid , says she served a man and three kids at the end of a double shift on Monday night. When she went to pick up the check , she discovered a note on the check that she thought said “ gray is wrong ” ; puzzled , she showed it to her girlfriend , who pointed out it actually said “ gay is wrong. ” " I was just shocked. I was more shocked than hurt , but I mean it did hurt , " Stewart told the news station. She says she messed up part of the table ’ s order , but later fixed the error — and certainly getting the wrong pancakes isn ’ t a reason to leave a grotesquely discriminatory message. The station was unable to track down the customer for comment.
It 's not just Italy that is affected , either : A recent 60 Minutes report estimated that up to 80 percent of the extra-virgin olive oil available in U.S. supermarkets is thought to be diluted with cheaper oils , and U.S. lawmakers have urged the FDA to create a sampling and testing system for imported oils.
Taco Bell ’ s boozy expansion plans now apparently include Orange County , as the OC Register is reporting a new location of the national chain ’ s Cantina concept is on its way. If you ’ re unfamiliar , Taco Bell Cantina offers a new look for the fast food franchise by sprucing up the interior , expanding and opening up the kitchen , and adding on a license to sell alcohol. It ’ s a model the company has been toying with for some time , with existing Cantina locations in Las Vegas , Chicago , San Francisco , and Austin. Heck , even Boston might be getting one soon. Now it ’ s Southern California ’ s turn to get in on the tapas-style menu and Taco Bell favorites. This newest expansion will take over Original Pizza in Newport Beach , a 53-year-old restaurant operating on Balboa Peninsula. That restaurant will close this week , with Taco Bell stepping in for a hopeful summer launch.
McDonald 's made a bold move in November when the chain revealed it was planning to add mozzarella sticks to the menu. The fast food giant began testing the new side in Wisconsin over the summer , and the fried cheese saw a nationwide launch earlier this month as part of the McPick 2 promotion. But , they are n't the best option for anyone trying to snack responsibly. What are the health-conscious supposed to do ? Behold , McDonald 's cheese-less cheese sticks. I came in with extremely low expectation for @ McDonalds mozzarella sticks.....yet somehow I was still disappointed pic.twitter.com/G7IlmQp7b5
Remove those rose-colored glasses : A new restaurant in New York City has decorated itself entirely in pink. It ’ s as though É dith Piaf ’ s “ La Vie En Rose ” has come to life at Pietro Nolita in downtown Manhattan where Instagram shots of the soon-to-open establishment are more famous than the taste of the chef ’ s food. Yes , everything inside the restaurant , including the chairs , tables , walls , doors , windows , and exterior is painted in assorted shades of pink , Eater New York reports. Named for co-owner Pietro Quaglia ( who decorated the space with co-owner Mina Soliman ) , the cafe will serve a riff on rustic Italian and American diner food in a jarring but comfortable setting. " It ’ s a relaxing color , " Soliman told Eater NY of the decor choice , " We didn ’ t want to go with a traditional rustic feel of an Italian restaurant. " Quaglia notes pink ’ s relationship to red , a strong and powerful color. " It means love , it means happiness , it means so many things , " he told Eater NY. " When you go to eat , that ’ s what you want. "
Today , Michelin , the tire company that awards stars to its favorite fine dining destinations , released its 2018 guide to Hong Kong and Macau. The list includes 74 starred recommendations in Hong Kong and 18 in Macau. As in last year ’ s guide , the same eight restaurants retained three Michelin stars this year , including Eater Essential 38 restaurant Lung King Heen , which became the first restaurant from a Chinese chef to earn three stars , back in the 2009 Michelin guide. The two-star category — those restaurants that are “ worth a detour ” — is equally snoozy. The same 16 restaurants , 11 in Hong Kong and five in Macau , retained their stars. Michelin added just eight new one-star selections to the guide this year , all in Hong Kong. They include Arcane , Kaiseki Den by Saotome , Imperial Treasure , and Cantonese restaurants Ying Jee Club and Yee Tung Heen.
Road trips can be a great time to try local or destination restaurants — the kind that offer cheap , filling meals that don ’ t detract too much from time spent on the road. But as it turns out , the most popular road trip dining destination is one of the country ’ s most popular destinations , period : Starbucks. According to data collected within the past year by Foursquare and Swarm ( Foursquare ’ s check-in app ) , Starbucks tops the list of most popular stops during a road trip. Most of the others on the list are pretty unsurprising , with a couple of exceptions. Tim Horton ’ s , for instance , took third place — interesting , considering it ’ s a Canadian chain ( though it does have more than 1,000 U.S. locations ) . From France 's Michelin Guide to America 's AAA magazines , automobile and affiliated industries have made a business out of encouraging drivers to stop at places considered " worth a detour " or " worth a special journey. " These are often unique , worthwhile , and otherwise out-of-the-way eats that have a sense of place and are overseen by skilled chefs. But the average American diner and driver 's tastes has never matched Michelin 's.
Summer solstice fire festivals in the Pyrenees. Korean tightrope-walking. Solving math equations on a traditional Chinese abacus … and the Mediterranean diet ? The olive-oil-abundant way of eating may seem like an outlier here , but all these things share one common attribute : They ’ re recognized by UNESCO as cultural treasures worth preserving for future generations. A number of countries have made headlines recently for seeking UNESCO status for iconic native foodstuffs. South Korea is seeking designation for its kimchi , Spain wants its tapas tradition recognized , and Italy is vying to get the art of Neapolitan pizza-making a spot on the list. But why ? Boasting that one of your nation ’ s prized foods was granted UNESCO heritage status certainly sounds impressive , but other than a fancy title ( and the resulting media coverage ) , what is it and how does it actually benefit these culinary traditions — if at all ?
From the studios of WNYC , Dan Pashman and Anne Noyes Saini produce The Sporkful , which , put simply , is a podcast about food. In a recently launched series called " Other People 's Food , " Pashman and a series of guests dig into what 's currently a very hot topic in the food world : race , food , and cultural appropriation. In a city rife with foods from all cultures and countries , Pashman dives into issues that arise when people eat , cook , and change the food from a culture " they were n't born into. " A previous episode of " Other People 's Food " featured Chicago chef Rick Bayless , and the chef has drawn some major criticism for his comments on cooking Mexican food as a white man. The next episode of features actress Rosie Perez , an actress and activist who was born in New York to Puerto Rican parents.
A financial analyst told Reuters expansion to the U.K. would be a " logical step " for Amazon. The company apparently employed the same survey strategy before debuting its delivery venture stateside : " These stealth tactics have been used carefully in the United States to do similar and launch successfully , and the U.K. is often used as the first international market , " Neil Campling , a senior analyst at Aviate Global , told Reuters.
A real-life version of a fictional fast food burger restaurant featured in Nickelodeon cartoon SpongeBob SquarePants could be in jeopardy. According to The Hollywood Reporter , Nickelodeon 's parent company , Viacom , filed a trademark infringement lawsuit this week against Houston-based IJR Capital Investments for allegedly operating a restaurant called The Krusty Krab. Known as the place where SpongeBob works as a na ï ve , devoted fry cook , The Krusty Krab seems ripe for a Bubba Gump-esque franchise. However , Viacom has yet to capitalize on this potential. Still , the company leaves open the possibility in its filing , stating that given its " extensive use of the 'Krusty Krab ' mark in a wide variety of trade channels — and the fact that the 'Krusty Krab ' is a restaurant in the SpongeBob universe — it is within the zone of natural expansion of Viacom business to operate in restaurant services. " The lawsuit further argues that IJR 's attempts to register Krusty Krab trademarks qualifies as infringement due to its " identical in appearance and sound , " which would likely lead to " confusion as to the source of the Infringing Mark and Defendant 's corresponding services. "
Hooters , the OG “ breastaurant ” chain that famously serves up objectified women along with baskets of chicken wings , has a brilliant idea to outwit its competitors in the still-growing breastaurant space : Go fast-casual , and take away the booty shorts. According to the Tampa Bay Times , Hooters will soon launch a fast-casual concept called Hoots , A Hooters Joint ( yep ) , serving a “ greatest hits ” version of the Hooters menu. Most strikingly , however , will be the planned change in service style : It ’ ll be counter service and feature both male and female workers wearing presumably normal clothes ( or at least , something other than the iconic “ revealing outfits , ” according to chain spokeswoman Lizz Harmon ) . The first iteration of Hoots will debut in a Chicago suburb this February , and plans to serve alcohol along with wings.
After Beyonc é thoroughly slayed the MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday night , she went out to dinner to celebrate — assembling the kind of entourage that only Queen Bey could. She and husband Jay Z hit up Manhattan hot spot of the moment Pasquale Jones with a ridiculously talented group in tow : Kanye West , Kim Kardashian-West , Diddy , Alicia Keys , Swizz Beatz , and Cassie. The group reportedly hung out till nearly 4 a.m. Any server working at a NYC hot spot is bound to encounter celebrities , but this is an absurd amount of money , power , and fame to be concentrated at one table. How much did they tip ? Did anyone pretend to have a gluten allergy ? What the hell is so funny , Diddy ? Also , can someone please give Beyonc é their damn chair ? She deserves to sit after that performance. According to Eater NY operatives , the guy between Jay and Yeezus is Steve Stoute , a former music executive who is now a restaurant investor. In further elbow-rubbing news , Pasquale Jones ' chef/co-owner Ryan Hardy used to be Jay 's private chef. This has been your daily look into the lifestyles of the rich and famous.
Terranea , the ritzy seaside resort in Palos Verdes Peninsula , is being accused of taking advantage of foreign interns and violating State Department regulations for J-1 cultural and educational visa exchange , according to a report by the LA Times. In a lawsuit filed by Unite Here , a local hotel worker ’ s union , a couple from India is seeking reimbursement for their expenses and an investigation into the international internship program that draws workers from the Philippines , India , and Malaysia. The lawsuit also alleges human trafficking and labor law violations against Terranea. The program was initially set up to allow training and learning opportunities for overseas workers , who paid to get into the year-long program with the hopes of gaining meaningful culinary experience across the resort ’ s various kitchens.
As of Friday , February 2 , Westsiders will no longer have to schlep to West Hollywood or Silver Lake for some of America ’ s most celebrated Thai food. Instead , chef Kris Yenbamroong and partner Sarah Yenbamroong are bringing loads of larb to Venice with the opening of their new Night + Market Sahm. This third Night + Market iteration ( sahm means three in Thai ) has been long in the works , as the Yenbamroongs first took over an existing Thai restaurant on Lincoln Boulevard back in 2016. A lot happened along the way , from awards to the first Night + Market cookbook , and it ’ s all led up to now , with the 70-seat restaurant opening this Friday for dinner. The Yenbamroongs already teased expectations for the new 2,000-square-foot space , which keeps much the same look and vibe as the previous two iterations , albeit with the added bonus of a really long fish tank down the middle. There are the neon-colored walls and the beads up front , plus a salacious shot of rocker Slash hanging against a far wall.
President Donald Trump ’ s inauguration cake continues to make headlines. First , it was revealed that Team Trump ordered a Washington , DC bakery to produce an exact replica of President Barack Obama ’ s 2013 cake , which was originally created by celebrity baker Duff Goldman. Now , Trevor Noah and the folks at The Daily Show say they ’ ve somehow gained possession of Trump ’ s cake. The Daily Show with Trevor NoahGet More : The Daily Show Full Episodes,The Daily Show on Facebook,The Daily Show Video Archive Noah says his team received a mysterious phone call regarding the cake , and it showed up at The Daily Show ’ s studio the next day. And now that Noah has this cake , he wants Daily Show viewers to decide what he should do with it. People across the internet are casting their votes via the Twitter hashtag # TrumpCake.
Beer behemoth Anheuser-Busch InBev is facing a European Union investigation over its business practices in Belgium , reports the Associated Press. The EU is looking into whether AB InBev has " abused its dominant position in Belgium by hindering cheaper imports of its products from neighboring countries. " In a statement , EU competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager said the company 's position in its home country is not being questioned. Instead , " we want to make sure that there are no anticompetitive obstacles to trade in beer within the European Single Market. " " Keeping out cheaper imports of its beer from neighboring countries would be both against the interests of consumers and anticompetitive , " Vestager said. The commission is specifically looking into two potential violations : Either violation would be in breach of Article 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. If found guilty , AB InBev could face fines or " calls to change its practices , " according to Financial Times. A spokesperson told the AP the company " is fully cooperating with the European Commission. "
News from the Democratic and Republican National Conventions have dominated headlines in recent weeks , as hordes of attendees descended upon Philadelphia and Cleveland. Hosting a political convention always provides a significant boost for local economies , with tens of thousands of party loyalists ( as well as media and protesters ) coming to town. But during the conventions ' off-hours , what are all these partisans doing ? Yelp data obtained by the Washington Post reveals what convention-goers in both cities searched for the most , and while some of it is exactly what you 'd expect , there are definitely some surprises. To collect this data , " Yelp looked at the relative increase in number of searches for each business category in Cleveland during the RNC and in Philadelphia during the DNC as compared with searches in each city from a week prior. "
One of the big trends in high-end gastronomy over the last decade and a half is the move away from regal dining rooms and toward intimate chef ’ s counters like you find at Brooklyn Fare in NYC , Saison in San Francisco , and MiniBar in D.C. Chefs young and old across America are embracing this format , and it ’ s not uncommon to find a few tasting menu experience on “ best restaurants ” in America lists , like Eater ’ s National 38. And now , there is a new player in the tasting menu scene , whose name might sound familiar. It ’ s a Southern California-based restaurant group serving quirky Mexican-American cuisine with sly molecular gastronomy flourishes called Taco Bell. The Taco Bell test kitchen experience is a textbook example of how a culinary trend can travel from tiny independent restaurants all the way to massive food corporations. Here are five things you need to know about this new , eye roll-inducing stunt :
In this new season of K-Town , Eater LA editor and host Matthew Kang returns to his native Los Angeles , where the largest and most influential Koreatown resides in the heart of the city. The first place he visits is called Dha Rae Oak , and it ’ s remarkable because it features one of the most unique duck preparations in all of America. To make its signature dish , Dha Rae Oak roasts a whole duck that ’ s stuffed with everything from glutinous rice and mung beans to nuts and seeds : Capping it off before the duck goes into a clay pot — and then the oven — is a bevy of aromatic Korean medicinal herbs like ginseng , to give it a rustic flair. After trying the most perfect platter of Korean duck ( “ everything you need for this meal is encapsulated inside this duck , ” Kang says ) , he goes for the restaurant ’ s second specialty , an onslaught of thinly sliced smoked duck that ’ s ready for the tabletop grill. The gently smoked duck gets a quick sear before getting wrapped with a pickled daikon radish , crunchy cabbage , and some mustard , for a pastrami sandwich-like experience.
The Meat Show heads to the top of the Mandarin Oriental in Manhattan , where experimental cocktail lounge the Aviary is serving cheaper cuts of pork high above Central Park. Pork belly and pig skin are often thought of as throwaways , but the fancy Chicago-based bar with a Michelin background is playing with that narrative. Executive chef Dan Perretta describes the process behind his giant chicharron as relatively simple , but what arrives at the table is a definitive showstopper : host Nick Solares dubs it the “ best chicharron anyone has ever had. ” There ’ s a pork belly dish too , which is a riff on a classic Alinea dish Perretta fell in love with in Chicago. Both are equally delicate and ornate , and unlike anything seen on The Meat Show before. Click here to watch more episodes of The Meat Show | Like Eater on Facebook to never miss a video
West Elm , maker of trendy , mid-century inspired furnishings , has announced plans to open a line of hotels , as Curbed notes — replete with plenty of the brand ’ s furniture and accessories , of course , but also with a culinary component. The Wall Street Journal reports West Elm will “ design , furnish and market the hotels , the first of which will open in Detroit and Savannah in late 2018 , and its partner DDK , a hospitality management and development company , will operate them. ” Additional locations are planned for Charlotte , Indianapolis , and Minneapolis. Naturally , all of the rooms ’ furniture and d é cor will be available online. So , if guests like the bed they sleep on , maybe they ’ ll hop on their laptop and buy it while lying in it. Each location will also include a restaurant and , though details are sketchy , it ’ s a safe bet that dinner will be served on a West Elm plate , alongside West Elm flatware , à la New York City ’ s ABC Carpet and Home and the restaurants it houses , including ABC Kitchen. Rates will range from $ 175 to $ 400 per room.
This story was originally published on Civil Eats. In the homey dining room at West Oakland ’ s Brown Sugar Kitchen , servers glide between tables offering refills on coffee while line cooks work in the open kitchen , frying chicken in front of a row of countertop seats. A neighborhood favorite , the restaurant boasts a warm atmosphere combining owner and chef Tanya Holland ’ s French culinary training with traditional down-home soul food to create dishes like barbecue shrimp and grits , beignets , and buttermilk fried chicken served with a cornmeal waffle. Though nothing in Brown Sugar Kitchen ’ s dining room or menu shows off the restaurant ’ s environmental credentials , Holland has long used sustainable practices , including ordering from local vendors and composting. Now she is pursuing a new , even more ambitious goal : a zero-waste kitchen.
Do you like food ? Do you like movies ? Do you like movies about food ? If you answered yes to any of those questions , you might enjoy Eater at the Movies , a column by Joshua David Stein. There was a time when the most troubling mystery of Riverdale — home of Archie Andrews and his adolescent cohort — was what was going on with Archie ’ s hair. What did the weird crosshatching along its fiery sides signify ? A close second , of course , was Archie ’ s eternal Manichean dilemma : Would his affections fall on the forces of wholesome but dull , played by Betty , or of venal but exciting , played by Veronica ? A distant but salient third mystery that only occurred to me later : Why the fuck are Betty and Veronica , both strong independent women , interested in Archie anyway ? Dude ’ s basic. But as weighty as those issues were — and they did keep me up at night — that version of Riverdale existed in simpler times when the best part of grocery shopping was trying to convince my mother to buy the newest issue of the various permutations of the comic book tucked kid-eye-level in the checkout aisle at Genuardi ’ s.
Taking time off for the birth of a child can be a considerable obstacle for new parents who work in the food and restaurant industry. The U.S. is the only industrialized nation that does not mandate that companies provide paid paternal leave to their employees ; while federal law requires companies to allow 12 weeks of family leave for certain qualifying employees , there are no requirements for compensation. Outside of California , Rhode Island , Washington , New Jersey , New York , and the District of Columbia , all of which have passed paid family leave laws , it ’ s up to individual companies to set their own policies. During his first State of the Union address , Trump encouraged lawmakers to “ support working families by supporting paid family leave. ” The President ’ s daughter Ivanka has been a vocal proponent of a national paid family leave program , and has met with Republican lawmakers to drum up support for such a policy — an apparent attempt to make good on her father ’ s campaign promise to give six weeks of paid leave for working mothers. So far , she ’ s had little luck.
Mary Berry , everyone ’ s favorite British reality television judge , broke the world ’ s heart when she announced plans to leave The Great British Bake Off. American fans are in luck , because Berry makes her triumphant return to U.S. television this week. The Great American Baking Show , a Bake Off spin-off , premieres Thursday night on ABC. This isn ’ t the first time Bake Off has inspired a stateside version. The American Baking Competition aired for one season on CBS in 2013 , and The Great Holiday Baking Show , which boasted Berry as a judge , aired on ABC in 2015. Neither saw much success , but they both preceded the British original ’ s explosion in popularity among U.S. viewers. Johnny Iuzzini , a James Beard award-winning pastry chef who ’ s made numerous television appearances , will join Berry as a judge on the new series. Wife-and-husband acting team Nia Vardalos ( My Big Fat Greek Wedding ) and Ian Gomez ( Cougar Town ) will host. A cast of 10 amateur bakers will attempt to navigate the competition ’ s many challenges. The first two installments will focus on cakes and cookies , respectively , and each episode will charge competitors to master a different discipline.
How many chicken wings does $ 2.9 billion buy ? That ’ s the price roast beef sandwich-slinging fast-food brand Arby ’ s agreed to fork over to acquire casual dining chain Buffalo Wild Wings. The deal is the most recent in a recent slew of big restaurant mergers , from Burger King buying Popeyes to Panera snapping up Au Bon Pain. BWW is just the latest addition to the portfolio of Roark Capital Group , a private equity firm that controls Arby ’ s and the sandwich chain Jimmy John ’ s , as well as Carl ’ s Jr. and Hardee ’ s parent company CKE Restaurants. Acquiring a chicken wing chain would seemingly make sense for Arby ’ s in light of its now-famous “ We have the meats ” tagline , and analysts also think it wise for more practical reasons : “ 45 percent of the population orders wings at least once a year , and that ’ s up 2 points from a year ago , ” according to restaurant analyst Bonnie Riggs of market research firm NPD Group. ( Interestingly , Roark also used to own BWW competitor Wingstop , but sold off the last of its holdings in the chain in 2016. )
Like many other major cultural institutions , the restaurant industry is reckoning with an epidemic of sexual harassment and assault. Like many other reckonings , this one is long overdue. Over the past few decades , the role of chefs in America transformed from never-seen , poorly paid labor hidden away in cramped kitchens to objects of endless fascination across television , news media , books , and increasingly , film. The chefs anointed as cultural arbiters were almost always white , almost always male. They shouted. They swaggered. They got sued for sexual harassment. But when one fell , there was always another white man to take his place , and never enough discussion why. In the wake of the Times-Picayune expose about pervasive harassment within the Besh Restaurant Group in New Orleans , one that many employees say emanated from top management , longtime advocates for equality in the industry like Preeti Mistry , Jen Agg , and Amanda Cohen are speaking out about kitchens ’ long-unspoken epidemic of sexual harassment. Male food-world celebrities and chefs like Anthony Bourdain , Tom Colicchio , and Daniel Patterson have decried systemic sexism in the industry , and take ( some measure of ) responsibility.
Chef/TV host/restaurateur Andrew Zimmern kicked off a shitstorm last week , following comments he made in a Fast Company interview that suggested his new Minneapolis restaurant Lucky Cricket would serve as a necessary interpreter of Chinese food for Midwesterners. “ I think I ’ m saving the souls of all the people from having to dine at these horseshit restaurants masquerading as Chinese food that are in the Midwest , ” Zimmern told Fast Co. ’ s Mark Wilson , a statement that discredited regional Chinese-American food , glossed over the racist , exclusionary policies of the 19th and 20th centuries that would have shaped that cuisine , and presupposed ignorance among Midwestern diners. Elsewhere in the interview , Zimmern addressed a direct question about appropriation — “ How does a white guy make a Chinese restaurant in Minneapolis that... doesn ’ t feel like it ’ s other-ing the culture ? ” — by calling into question Shanghai-born restaurateur Philip Chiang ’ s authority to sell an “ Americanized ” version of Chinese cuisine. “ Was P.F. Chang ’ s not a ripoff because Cecilia Chiang ’ s kid owned it ? ” Zimmern asked in his answer. “ Because , despite how he looks on the outside , he ’ s a rich , American kid on the inside , right ? ” The comment — and Zimmern ’ s later clarification to Eater that “ by the time PFC opened the family was as ‘ American ’ as I am in a sense ” — assumes knowledge of and erases Chiang ’ s experiences living as a person of color in America.
As Britain stews over Brexit , America plans to brew over it. Boston Beer Company , which makes Sam Adams , may have a Brexit beverage in the works , the Wall Street Journal reports. The company submitted a trademark application for " BREXIT , " and according to filings it will be a hard cider concept. ( Seeing as how Sam Adams is named after a founding father , it seems strangely fitting that the beer company would attempt to profit off Great Britain 's political misfortune. ) Politically-inclined beers are fairly common , though they more often focus on specific politicians or candidates rather than upheavals of potentially untoward magnitude. Here , a timeline of recent political beers : 2004 : Oregon ’ s Portland Brewing Co. launches Governator Ale to commemorate Arnold Schwarzenegger being elected Governor of California
The Minneapolis City Council voted Friday to pass a landmark $ 15 per hour minimum wage increase. No special allowances were made for tipped employees. Minneapolis now joins Seattle , San Francisco and Washington D.C. , cities that have passed similar measures ( though in D.C. there is an allowance made for a lower wage for tipped employees ) . The wage increase comes after a contentious battle between small restaurant owners and servers with the unions and Mayor Betsy Hodges. The mayor wrote an open letter back in February in favor of the raise without what she deemed a “ tip penalty. ” She also made a controversial correlation between tipping and slavery. Many independent restaurant owners like Lina Goh and John Ng of Zen Box Izakaya made impassioned pleas to consider tipped wages as income , while also agreeing that a minimum wage increase was a move in the right direction.
After leading the Cavaliers to the NBA title and giving Cleveland its first major sports championship since 1964 , LeBron James is eating whatever the hell he wants. Apparently , what he wanted recently was a pizza with an outrageous 16 toppings from California-based chain Blaze Pizza. Yes , LeBron likes his pizza with shredded mozzarella , parmesan , grilled chicken , turkey meatballs , banana peppers , cherry tomatoes , fresh basil , garlic , green bell peppers , Kalamata olives , red onions , spinach , sea salt , oregano , arugula , and olive oil drizzle , all on top of " high-rise dough " and spicy red sauce. It appears the hoopster took advantage of Blaze 's build-your-own deal and paid only $ 9.95 , including the $ 2 upcharge for the special crust , for the pie. Though , he did add a side salad and s'more pie for dessert.
Crispy Bird , which opens in Indianapolis next week , began simply. “ I just wanted to open a fried chicken shack , ” says chef David Hoover of the idea he had years ago , just as fried chicken restaurants were becoming trendy. Hoover grew up in a restaurant family — Indianapolis empire-builder Martha Hoover is his mother — but , he says , “ I realized there was so much I didn ’ t know how to do. I thought I knew how to cook , but I had never really taken the time to educate myself properly. ” Hoover attended culinary school in France , before taking some time to cook there and in Copenhagen. Now , he ’ s back in Indianapolis , and he ’ s partnering with his mom and her group to bring his vision to life. The restaurant represents only the tip of the iceberg of Patachou , Inc. , which owns and operates restaurants in the Indianapolis area , beginning with the first Cafe Patachou in 1989. In 2017 alone , Patachou embarked on an expansion of Public Greens , a salad-focused restaurant that donates proceeds to charity , opened a 16-seat bar called 114 , and , now , Crispy Bird.
Tipsy Robot Address : Miracle Mile Shops , 3663 Las Vegas Blvd. S. Phone : 702-659-7711 Status : Opened at 10 a.m. Hours : Open from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and from 10 a.m. to midnight Friday and Saturday. The automated world of cocktails is now upon us. Tipsy Robot shook its first cocktail today , with two robots mixing up the 18 cocktails on the menu. Customers order their drinks on one of 33 tablets , choosing a specialty cocktail or creating on of their own. Robo shots and a Bionic Bomb are among the concoctions. Then they can watch an electronic board that estimates how long before their $ 14 drink arrives. Those robotic arms , which operate similar to their human counterparts , need about 60 to 90 seconds to complete an order. In their spare time , the robotic arms slice fruit or even dance to the soundtrack of EDM and Top 40 hits. Sorry , the robots can ’ t pour beer or wine. They also don ’ t accept tips.
Italian lawmakers have recently started cracking down on olive oil fraud , which is a lucrative industry for the Mafia that brings in an estimated $ 16 billion annually. The most common type of fraud is passing off cheaper , lower-quality olive oils as pricier extra-virgin , though in some particularly egregious cases the oil may not be from olives at all.
While there ’ s sure to be dilly-dilly antics and galloping clydesdales galore from Anheuser-Busch InBev this Super Bowl Sunday , the brewing giant will also raise the profile of its charitable side. On several occasions since the late ’ 80s , the company has temporarily halted beer production in order to can still water for disaster relief efforts. The beer titan will note these good deeds in a commercial scheduled to air during this year ’ s NFL championship game. The serious ad depicts AB InBev employees ramping up water canning in the wake of a catastrophe , all while a somber version of “ Stand By Me ” plays. This TV spot is a departure from the norm , as most of this year ’ s food- and beverage-related ads appear to be going for jokes with celebrities , including Morgan Freeman shilling for Mountain Dew and David Schwimmer representing Skittles.
Want to build a long-lasting , devoted customer base — even after your millennial customers get older , richer , and wiser ? Target their kids. Chipotle may not have Happy Meals , but that 's not stopping it from wooing children in its latest bid to win back skeptical consumers after its recent public health crisis. Per a release from this morning , kids can eat free at Chipotle every Sunday , provided they order with an adult who purchases one regular-priced entr é e. Chipotle has also partnered with children 's book Dragons Love Tacos on limited edition activity sheets to accompany each kid 's meal , but let ’ s be honest : parents are probably more excited by the free tacos. This move is Chipotle ’ s latest effort to win customers back after a rash of E. coli outbreaks in 2015 ; its sales numbers ( and stock price ) has plummeted since the beginning of 2016. This year , the chain has been hit by a slew of lawsuits — some concerning the aforementioned E. coli , others alleging wage fraud and discrimination.
• At Noma Mexico , they don ’ t call the waiters servers or staffers or team members — they call them nerds. • Cara Stadler , one of Maine ’ s most well-known chefs , is abandoning her five month-old no-tipping policy at her pair of restaurants Bao Bao Dumpling House in Portland and Tao Yuan in Brunswick after recently reviewing the books. Customers balked at the higher prices and ordered less food , and the restaurants didn ’ t have enough funds to cover the higher wages of the employees. Stadler had hoped to add an 18 percent service charge to all checks and use that to pay higher wages across the staff , but Maine doesn ’ t allow it. Legislators are considering revising the law to allow for automatic service charges , and if that happens , Stadler may try the whole no-tipping experiment again. • Celebrity chef and chef to celebrities Wolfgang Puck got his promised Walk of Fame star yesterday.
After recently announcing its intentions to begin producing packaged food items , online retail giant Amazon has revealed its own line of coffee products. Happy Belly coffee is now available for purchase on the website , reports CNET , and it appears nine varieties are in stock. Amazon describes each Happy Belly blend as " crafted from sustainably sourced Fair trade certified organic Arabica beans , grown by small-scale farmers in high-altitude tropical climates. " The company says its coffee is sourced from Central and South America , and it 's all sold either pre-ground or in whole-bean form. The 12-ounce bags check in at just under $ 10 , and they 're available only for Amazon Prime customers. While this may be the first step toward focusing more on in-house food products , Amazon is n't about to walk away from major brands. The release of its Happy Belly coffee comes at the same time as the company is making a big push for its easy-ordering Dash Button devices. Earlier this week , Amazon announced the one-click ordering tool is available for more than 50 new products , including coffee purveyors such as Peet 's , Starbucks , Maxwell House , and Illy. It remains to be seen how those partnerships will evolve if the Happy Belly line gains prominence.
Now that another Thanksgiving has come and gone , it ’ s time for the yuletide television specials to start rolling across the airwaves. This year , a few of food TV ’ s biggest stars are hosting one-off specials , and two cooking competition shows are returning for entire holiday-themed seasons. Here ’ s a guide to five of the big winter-themed cooking shows to watch out for between now and the end of December. Watch it on : NBC When : Wednesday , November 28 at 10 p.m.The gist : Hollywood ’ s favorite couple , John Legend and Chrissy Teigen , will host an hour-long yuletide extravaganza featuring a cavalcade of special guests , including Stevie Wonder , Kim Kardashian , Zach Galifianakis , Raphael Saadiq , and Kenan Thompson. The trailer indicates that the special will have plenty of singing as well as some cooking , and at least one scene involving Crazy Rich Asians star Awkwafina and a giant lollipop. Antoni Porowski and the rest of the Queer Eye gang will also make a cameo on the hour-long special , and expect a few plugs for John ’ s new Christmas album and Chrissy ’ s new Cravings book.
We ’ re about to reach a tipping point on tipping : In December , the Trump administration ’ s Department of Labor announced it would roll back regulations that prohibited tip-pooling , or the distribution of tips to anyone other than the front-of-house staff who earned them. ( These regulations were enacted under the Obama administration in 2011 ) . Under proposed — and currently pending — new regulations , employers that pay all of their employees the full minimum wage ( not the tipped minimum ) would be considered “ owners ” of any tips made by their staff. They could then : Share or redistribute tips between servers and back-of-house employees like cooks and dishwashers ; keep the tips for themselves ; distribute among management ; or keep for their business. Supporters of the change argue that it could go a long way towards erasing the growing income inequality between cooks and servers. But opponents fear it allows tip-pocketing by management , and creates a lack of transparency that could mean a decrease in tips in an industry heavily reliant on tips to support wages.
Sushi is getting spendier across the country. According to the latest numbers from Bloomberg ’ s Sushinomics Index , the price of affordable California and spicy tuna rolls in the U.S. rose by 2.3 percent over the past year to an average of $ 6.99. The cost of basic rolls was highest in New York City and Los Angeles , followed closely by Miami , where prices spiked by a whopping 10 percent year over year. New Orleans is currently enjoying some of the most affordable sushi around , thanks perhaps in part to Louisiana ’ s booming seafood economy. According to the index , basic rolls in the Big Easy are averaging $ 5.40. In the high-end raw fish market , the U.S. average for pricier sushi — measured by the most expensive house specials and signature rolls on a menu — is now $ 15.79. Over the past five years , sushi fans in Charlotte , North Carolina , as well as Portland , Oregon , and Seattle experienced some of the steepest price increases.
David Bouhadana is the most aggressively cool sushi chef in New York City. After years of steady regard , he upped his profile dramatically a couple of years ago following a well-calculated rebellion against the Department of Health over not wearing gloves while preparing sushi , a fight that led to his firing from Sushi Dojo. Since then , he has seen more acclaim for his sake-soaked omakase dinners , including from Eater. This upward trajectory has most recently led to a second location of his ( quite good ) 30-minute , $ 50 omakase restaurant , Sushi By Bou , weeks after opening the first one. Little wonder that Bouhadana , a white man from Florida , feels sufficiently credentialed to call himself “ the new face of sushi. ” Maybe this is why Bouhadana feels entitled to freely speak English in a Japanese accent while preparing and serving his omakase.
Nationally renowned chef Edouardo Jordan doesn ’ t consider Lucinda Grain Bar his third Ravenna restaurant ; he says when the casual , heirloom grain-focused establishment opens December 8 , next to his spectacular Southern restaurant , Junebaby , it will be his first bar. It ’ s also a daytime cafe , another first for the two-time James Beard Award-winning chef and restaurateur. “ It ’ s a bar first that serves good food with a cafe kind of feel , ” Jordan says. Jordan hasn ’ t settled on a bar manager yet , but his highly capable director of operations , Elmer Dulla , is devising the first drink menu. Jordan promises simplicity : straight pours of special single-barrel whiskeys neat or on the rocks and classic cocktails like Manhattans and Negronis , maybe with a modification or two. “ We ’ re not trying to compete with Canon to become the best new bar in the world with foams and smokes. ” But he ’ s also interested in experimentation and education , which could mean vodka infused with toasted rye , limited-edition beers featuring local grains , and educational flights showcasing corn , rice , and millet in various spirits.
Bad news this week for Soylent , the favorite meal replacement of tech bros everywhere who are too busy crushing it to eat actual food : The company has warned that its drink mix powder may contain undeclared milk in the form of whey powder , and it ’ s subsequently recalling 890 boxes of the product. A little bit of undeclared milk may be no big deal for most people , but that news is likely to stick in the craw of customers who happen to be vegan ( Soylent has long claimed to be entirely free of animal products ) — or lactose intolerant , for that matter. No related illnesses have been reported , though , and customers are being assured this issue will not impact any future Soylent shipments. Plus , it could definitely be worse : Last fall , a number of folks who purchased Soylent ’ s solid food bars reported suffering from nausea , diarrhea , and/or vomiting , something the company later blamed on an algae ingredient. In the meantime , maybe just eat a sandwich or something.
Laura Patricia Ramirez came to the United States in 1985 when she was just 16 years old , along with her husband Alberto and a month-old baby. Unable to speak any English , and missing her larger Mexican community and food , Ramirez felt her homesickness couldn ’ t be helped Alberto , who worked in the horse-racing industry and travelled to Chicago often , would bring Mexican spices and foods to their new home in Lexington , Kentucky. The small Mexican community there — which would later give the area the moniker “ Mexington ” — begged Alberto to sell the ingredients he was bringing back. After a quick trip to Mexico to source a tortilla-making machine , the couple opened Tortilleria y Taqueria Ramirez. After opening and seeing the large Latinx community in their area , Laura and Alberto decided to add a restaurant to the space. “ We wanted people to be able to get the food that we couldn ’ t get when we first came to the United States , ” says Laura.
Diehard fans of Iron Chef and its American spinoffs will be pleased to learn the franchise is making a comeback : Food Network will debut a new series called Iron Chef Gauntlet in spring 2017 , the network revealed today. According to Variety , “ Details of the new format are thin other than it promises to offer some new twists on the cooking-showdown format. ” One thing we do know , however , is that newly minted Broadway star Alton Brown will return as host. The original Iron Chef ran from 1993 to 1999 in Japan. Food Network ’ s spinoff Iron Chef America debuted in 2005 , and though it stopped airing new episodes in 2014 , the network refused to say it was canceled — perhaps because it had a fresh reboot in mind all along ? No word yet on any of the chef talent that will be involved with the show. Previous Iron Chefs on the American edition included Bobby Flay , Mario Batali , Cat Cora , Michael Symon , Masaharu Morimoto , and Alex Guarnaschelli , among others.
Beer-drinking Utahans could end up with very few beer choices on their shelves as brewing giant Anheuser-Busch considers major cutbacks to the production of 3.2 percent beer — the only alcoholic beverage that can be sold in grocery stores in the state. Utahans would still be able to get their hands stronger beer and other booze at state-owned liquor stores , but the cutback would still be a problem since the weak beer is a huge seller in the state. According to the Salt Lake Tribune , the 3.2 percent brews make up “ the vast majority of all beer sold in the state ” : five times more 3.2 percent beer is sold than all other beverages combined. Yet it might not be profitable ( or “ feasible ” ) for the company behind Budweiser and Rolling Rock to keep making it. In a letter to Utah ’ s beer wholesalers , Anheuser-Busch wrote that it was considering nearly halving the number of beer brands it sold in the state ( from 20 to 12 ) and drastically reducing the number of beer types ( from 113 to under 70 ) . In comparison , Anheuser-Busch offers nearly 800 beer types in Maine , which has a similarly sized market for beer but much laxer liquor laws.
Summer 2016 is turning out to be awfully nostalgic as far as beverages go. First Hi-C resurrected its garishly green Ecto Cooler , and now another 90s icon is poised for a comeback : Crystal Pepsi. A press release from PepsiCo reveals the clear soda will return for a limited time this summer in 20-ounce bottle form ; expect to see it both on store shelves and at select restaurants starting July 11 in Canada and August 8 in the U.S. The company says they 're bringing back the beverage , which originally launched back in 1992 and was only sold for a year , due to " overwhelming fan demand. " ( It was briefly offered again in December 2015 , but only via a sweepstakes on the Pepsi Pass app. ) And if that was n't nostalgic enough , Pepsi will also launch its own version of the wildly popular 90s computer game Oregon Trail to coincide with the drink 's launch. It 's called the Crystal Pepsi Trail ; hopefully the clear drink wo n't give your character dysentery.
In 2017 , if a meal consumed at a restaurant doesn ’ t get posted online , did it really happen ? Now that 95 percent of Americans own a cell phone of some kind , opportunistic restaurateurs are encouraging smartphone usage by designing venues and menus with Instagram in mind. Even if they don ’ t go viral , these photos become free marketing for a chef ’ s menu or business. Starbucks rode the Instagram trend hard this past year by releasing limited-edition , eye-popping Unicorn and Zombie-themed Frappuccinos ; in San Francisco ’ s Mission District , the Cuban restaurant Media Noche provides Instagram-ready content in the form of its floral-tiled floors. A handful of restaurant operators , however , are going in the opposite direction and actively discouraging phone use at the table. The marketing ploy here is meant to appeal to diners that remember “ the good ol ’ days ” when a shared meal was about conviviality and real-life conversation — not “ the ‘ gram. ”
No one likes to have their fast food order messed up , but pulling a gun seems like an overreaction , to say the least. Police in Milwaukee are looking for a man who shot at a drive-thru window in anger after his Taco Bell order was missing sour cream , the Associated Press reports. The man reportedly called the restaurant after noticing the egregious lack of sour cream and was told he could return the next day for a free meal. Instead , he allegedly went back to the restaurant shortly after midnight and fired shots at the drive-thru and an employee ’ s car , TMJ4 reported. Thankfully , the drive-thru window was bulletproof and no one was injured. In other cases of drive-thru crime , a disgruntled McDonald 's customer in Utah pulled a gun after getting into a shouting match with an employee ; and in January , a sheriff ’ s deputy in California was arrested for pointing his gun at Jack in the Box workers when his order was taking too long.
What a year it ’ s been for Twitter. The President of the United States has used his timeline to insult constituents and bait unstable enemies. Chief executive officer Jack Dorsey has regularly been the target of abuse due to his social media platform ’ s ongoing problems with abuse. Verification was suspended because too many white supremacists had their voices amplified by those little blue checkmarks. While all that was going on , there were some fun tweets. Food brands , in particular , had a good time online this year. A model-turned-cookbook author became the voice of a nation. And , a teenager ensured he will never go hungry thanks to an endless supply of fast-food chicken nuggets. Here now , a fond look back at some of the rare positive moments on Twitter : In April , 16-year-old Carter Wilkerson posed a simple question to square burger chain Wendy ’ s : How many retweets would it take for one to receive free chicken nuggets for a full year ? The social media person on call for Wendy ’ s at that moment determined 18 million retweets would suffice.
America has a lot of fast food restaurants , but no burger stand stirs up more devotion amongst its fans than Texas-based chain Whataburger. America also has a bunch of superheroes , but right now , no caped crusader is more beloved amongst its fans than Wonder Woman , the only cool person in the entire DC Comics cinematic universe. And , as it turns out , both the superhero and the burger hero have logos that are nearly identical. So , for all of these reasons , it makes complete sense that someone would create a Whataburger/Wonder Woman mashup costume for Halloween this year. A post shared by Kevin Fujii ( @ kevinfujii ) on Oct 30 , 2017 at 7 : 37am PDT Renee Fujii , the Fort Worth resident who designed this ensemble , says that she got the idea for the costume over the summer when her dad mistook her Wonder Woman shirt for a piece of Whataburger merch. Everything except the boots and the shield are fashioned from Whataburger packaging : the leggings are made of styrofoam drink cups , the skirt is a patchwork of chicken tender containers , and the crown is a repurposed apple pie box. “ It definitely took a little planning , ” Fujii tells the Star Telegram. “ I definitely made lots of trips to Whataburger , and I asked them for extra cups , plastic bags and apple pie containers. ”
It ’ s not all selfies and champagne showers over at Noma , the acclaimed Copenhagen restaurant that closed the doors to its original location a few days ago. As chef/owner Ren é Redzepi makes his plans for what the next iteration will bring , he has announced new partners in the restaurant : restaurant manager James Spreadbury , service director Lau Richter , and dishwasher Ali Sonko. The chef also plans to gift pieces of the walls of Noma 1.0 to various staff members. New partners : As we close the doors to the old noma , we also push towards the next rendition. We are almost positive we will open the doors to our new space at the end of this year. But , most importantly , we are here to tell you that noma in its new edition will have a handful of new partners. It gives me incredible joy to let the world know that our restaurant managers Lau and James , and our dishwasher , Ali , have become partners in noma. This is only the beginning , as we plan to surprise several more of our staff with a piece of the walls that they have chosen to work so hard within. This move is one of the happiest moments of my time at noma - best wishes Ren é Redzepi
A $ 40 million housing and retail complex outside Santa Cruz in Aptos , the currently under construction Aptos Village , will get a boost from David Kinch , among others. The restaurateur and Santa Cruz resident behind three Michelin-starred Manresa in Los Gatos has signed on to the endeavor , where he ’ ll open an as-yet unnamed business. A representative for Kinch says no specific details on the project are available at this early stage. The Aptos Village complex is still adding tenants , announcing — along with Kinch — coming locations from popular area businesses like the Penny Ice Creamery. Four restaurants and 15 shops will make up the complex in total , adding to an already announced location of the New Leaf Community Market , a grocer that operates in Santa Cruz and Capitola.
Valentine 's Day and its gaggle of heart-shaped merchandise is just over the horizon , which means it 's also time for the onslaught of weird novelty foods. Right on cue , a small Tokyo ramen chain called Mensho will unveil chocolate ramen on February 1 , reports RocketNews24. Chocolate ramen ? Sure , we 'll try anything once ! https : //t.co/Rif7T8jsXC # JapaneseFood # ramen pic.twitter.com/w5nnpVgy8W The idea of ramen noodles with a hint of cocoa in the dough seems pretty harmless , or perhaps a broth deepened with some melted dark chocolate ( hey , it works for mole ) . But no : Instead , this soup has solid chunks of chocolate swimming around in it , as if someone dropped a broken Hershey bar into your lunch. RocketNews says that while yes , you can " simply grab pieces of chocolate with your chopsticks and eat them like you would any other ramen toppings , " the pro move is to let the candy melt into the soup and then slurp up chocolatey-coated noodles. Perhaps Mensho will bring its chocolate ramen across the vast ocean when it opens in San Francisco next month.
The restaurant business is in trouble. In addition to labor shortages and rising labor costs and increasing real estate costs and slim margins and shifting consumer desires , restaurants are in trouble because there are too many restaurants , according to a New York Times report. After the dot-com bust of the early aughts , many investors turned away from Silicon Valley and to the hospitality sector in search of more reliable — though smaller — returns. The Times says Wall Street “ poured billions into the restaurant industry ” in recent years and that the number of restaurants in the U.S. — currently estimated at 620,000 according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics — “ is growing at about twice the rate of the population. ” It ’ s also true that Americans are spending more of their budget on dining , that the hospitality industry has added a record number of jobs to the economy , and that restaurant sales are up. The concern is that growth — the change in sales over time — is down “ to the lowest rate since 2010. ”
Chef Daniel Rose — an American who spent the bulk of his culinary career in Paris — has generated a lot of buzz with his new venture , Le Coucou. That ’ s partially because the restaurant , located in the Howard Hotel in New York ’ s SoHo , is a partnership with restaurateur Stephen Starr. The two are both industry heavy-hitters , though perhaps a bit of an odd couple : Rose has earned acclaim for his Paris restaurant , Spring ( he also owns La Bourse et La Vie and his slated to open a third , Chez La Vieille , this fall ) while Starr sits atop a sprawling , 34-restaurant empire. But as Starr told the New York Times in April , this restaurant is more a labor of love than a blockbuster crowd-pleaser : “ I will never make a lot of money here , in this restaurant. That ’ s not the point. My heart is in these types of restaurants , but you ’ ve got to pay for the things. ”
Late on a Friday morning this summer , I sat down at a wobbly two-person table outside Sqirl , a tiny counter-service restaurant on the edges of Silver Lake , one of Los Angeles ’ s hipper neighborhoods. My friend and I attempted to blend in with the rest of the clientele — local screenwriters and hot dads who somehow have the time to laze about during the day and graze on frittatas and malva pudding cake — all of us an incongruous tableau on a remarkably average strip of Virgil Avenue , which Sqirl shares with Twig & Twine floral arrangers , Fiestecita Party Supply , Marshall Security Training Academy , and a cash-only Chinese restaurant called Wah ’ s Golden Hen. As our table filled up with bowls of spring onion hash and crispy rice salad and glasses of rhubarb lemonade , we looked at the spread with a sense of giddy awe. Everything was Technicolor , an overwhelming bounty. Before breaking into a gargantuan slice of ricotta-and-jam-topped toast , I snapped a photo of our table on the sidewalk , sun-dappled and brimming with vegetable things , and posted the image to Instagram. After we ’ d finished our meal and left , I saw that another friend — who lives a few blocks from me in Brooklyn — had left a comment : " I ’ m on my way there right now ! "
As demand for food delivery continues to grow , restaurants and their delivery app partners are finding ways to serve more customers. One method that ’ s proven intriguing with investors is the advent of so-called “ virtual restaurants ” — kitchens that exist only to serve delivery customers — and now popular delivery app DoorDash is getting on board. DoorDash has launched a new 2,000-square-foot commissary kitchen in Silicon Valley that encompasses space for four different delivery-only restaurants , Reuters reports. Called DoorDash Kitchens , the company charges each occupant rent based on a percentage of their gross sales. The virtual restaurant model represents a way for restaurants to expand their delivery area and customer base while cutting back on labor and rent costs , and/or test a new concept without investing huge amounts of cash into a brick-and-mortar operation.
Monkfish might be the closest thing to a sea monster that ’ s served in fancy restaurants. In stores , monkfish are available in approachable fillets , but for this episode of Fresh Catch , Adam Geringer-Dunn of Greenpoint Fish & Lobster Co. brought in a whole one from the market and showed us how to handle it. Monkfish have huge heads , the better for ( their own ) eating. Monkfish attract prey with a small fishing rod above their mouth. When the rod lures smaller fish in close , the monkfish opens up its terrifying mouth and chomps down. The fish have two rows of very sharp teeth , and they ’ ll eat anything , including smaller monkfish. Because the head is mostly inedible ( and a little intimidating ) , it ’ s usually removed before the fish makes it to market. However , if you know where to look , there ’ s some good meat to be found on the cheeks.
The first location of Shannon Allen ’ s organic fast-casual concept Grown hadn ’ t been open for more than three months before members from Walmart ’ s development team came in asking for her. They wanted to know more about the Miami-based restaurant ’ s mission and how Allen and her husband , two-time NBA champion Ray Allen , were able to produce certified organic meals in under five minutes. They were apparently impressed with the popularity of the restaurant , which had lines stretching out the door. “ Then they said this magic sentence : ‘ Can you do this in a Walmart ? ’ ” Allen says. “ And for me it was really overwhelming. ” Allen wasn ’ t sure if she wanted to expand so quickly , or with such a powerhouse like Walmart. But after some time she decided that a Walmart location could be a way to get her organic food in front of everyday people. The concept , now with six locations , opened in a Walmart Supercenter in Orlando this August , and could be just the first in a series of changes Walmart will implement to boost its status in a rapidly changing industry.
The fruit smoothie , long thought of by many as a healthy meal replacement , is the cause of a Hepatitis A outbreak in five states across the country. Food Safety News reports the outbreak is linked to frozen strawberries served at Tropical Smoothie Cafe locations in Virginia , and 44 people in the state are sick. An additional seven people in Maryland , North Carolina , Oregon , and Wisconsin have been infected. Hepatitis A is a highly contagious liver infection , according to the Centers for Disease Control , though it is a " self-limited disease that does not result in chronic infection. " Symptoms include jaundice , fever , fatigue , nausea , vomiting , and abdominal pain , and they " can range in severity from a mild illness lasting a few weeks to a severe illness lasting several months. " The CDC , Food and Drug Administration , and states affected are investigating the outbreak , a CDC spokesperson told Food Safety News. The Virginia Department of Health warned residents of a possible health risk , but that came two weeks after the state notified Tropical Smoothie on August 5 , according to a statement posted by chief executive officer Mike Rotondo on YouTube. A statement posted on Tropical Smoothie 's website indicates the tainted strawberries were imported from Egypt , and the chain has pulled imported Egyptian strawberries from all of its locations.
When he ’ s not traveling the world filming his hit travel show Parts Unknown , Anthony Bourdain loves cooking up new creative ventures like comic books and documentaries. And now , it looks like Bourdain and his collaborators at Zero Point Zero Production are venturing into the realm of scripted entertainment. While speaking on a Produced By NY panel this weekend with his producing partner Lydia Tenaglia , Bourdain hinted at a new scripted project , while also mentioning that he really enjoyed working on David Simon ’ s HBO show Treme several years ago. Earlier this fall , in a chat with Eater , Bourdain also said that he was tinkering with “ a fiction/dramatic/comedic/melodrama thing. ” A rep for Zero Point Zero tells Eater that , in a break from Bourdain ’ s previous projects , this new endeavor will not be a food-related. Stay tuned for more details on this new Bourdain project as they become available.
Receiving a steady stream of unwanted text messages from some acquaintance to whom you foolishly gave your number is a true nightmare scenario. A man named Jonathan Anozie is living this nightmare , reports TMZ , and the offending creepster is Papa John. Well , it probably isn ’ t real-life Papa John ’ s founder John Schnatter sending the texts , but an automated marketing system for his pizza chain is apparently overloading Anozie ’ s mobile notifications with offers for discounted pies. As such , the Beverly Hills , California , resident is suing the chain for $ 500 per unwanted text. The lawsuit , filed in the United States District Court Central District of California , claims Anozie replied “ STOP ” on multiple occasions , but the messages just kept coming. The alleged deluge caused the plaintiff “ to suffer a significant amount of anxiety , frustration , and annoyance. ” Who among us hasn ’ t experienced anxiety , frustration , and annoyance upon a plethora of unwanted texts ?
Although this episode was clearly filmed last spring , it ’ s actually Christmas week on Top Chef Kentucky , and all the cheftestepants must compete in a series of yuletide challenges peppered with surprises from a bunch of guest stars. At the start of the episode Nini is still stoked about her elimination challenge win in the last episode , and , indeed , it seems like it will be hard for her to top the universally-praised spoonbread é touff é e that she made for the judges. Eddie , meanwhile , just can ’ t get over his ill-advised Whole Foods lamb purchase , which effectively threw several of his fellow teammates under the bus during the last challenge. “ I ’ m not trying to be the villain , I ’ m not trying to hurt anyone on purpose , ” Eddie tells the camera. “ I don ’ t think this guilt ’ s going to go away quickly. ” In other news , it appears that there is a bromance brewing between tall guys Brandon and Brian , who bond over the fact that they ’ re both a little obsessed with their hair.
“ Close minded , prejudicial , quick to make assumptions about places different than where we grew up ” — these are stereotypes globetrotting host Anthony Bourdain ascribes to himself in the lead-in to Sunday night ’ s episode of the CNN travelogue Parts Unknown. “ I ’ m talking about me and people like me who are way too comfortable thinking of Texas as a big space filled with intolerant and variably right-wing white people waddling between the fast-food outlet and the gun store. ” Of course , what Bourdain finds in this Houston , Texas , episode is something far more culturally rich , diverse , and welcoming than might be preconceived. Despite its associations with oil , shipping , NASA , and football , Bourdain discovers the Houston metro area is home to African-American , immigrant , and refugee communities. Some 200,000 immigrants from India , Pakistan , Nepal , and Bangladesh live in the city , as Bourdain learns during a visit to Little India. At a grocery store , Bourdain witnesses an impromptu dance and eating contest , and joins a local disc jockey at a popular Indian-Pakistani eatery Himalaya Restaurant.
The NYC branch of Flavortown is saying goodbye , cruel world. Guy ’ s American Kitchen & Bar in Times Square will serve its last squirt of Donkey Sauce on December 31 , Eater NY reports. News of the closure comes as a surprise : Though the restaurant , which opened in 2012 , was thoroughly skewered by New York Times critic Pete Wells in a now-legendary restaurant review , it was also one of the nation ’ s highest-grossing independent restaurants , racking up $ 17 million in sales in 2016. Despite serving some objectively terrible food at his restaurants , the Diners , Drive-Ins and Dives host has morphed into somewhat of a folk hero in recent years — and as such , Twitter users have gathered to mourn the loss of what may be the most Times Square-iest of all the Times Square tourist trap dining destinations.
Few main dishes are better suited for a dinner party than a leg of lamb ; a formidable cut of meat , it makes an impressive and arresting sight on any table , but can be a little daunting to tackle in the kitchen. That 's where our friends at ChefSteps , ahem , step in. A food and technology company based in Seattle , ChefSteps is dedicated to demystifying the art of cooking using creative tips and simple tools. Many factors play into perfecting a leg of lamb , but ChefSteps walks you through all of them : from butchering tricks ( pro tip : often buying the whole leg is less expensive than purchasing just the smaller piece , but it does mean you ’ ll have some breaking apart to do at home ) , to flavor options , to cooking and serving instructions. Finish the dish with a crispy herb and seed crust and it 's sure to be a hit , whatever the gathering.
In case you needed another reason to go to Tokyo , Japan ’ s capital has more Michelin stars than any other city in the world — and it ’ s not even close. The restaurant guidebook purveyor just unveiled its 2017 guides for Japan , and as the Wall Street Journal notes , Tokyo has a whopping 227 establishments with one or more stars. Meanwhile , Osaka , Japan ’ s second largest city , has 96 restaurants with stars. Compare that to the European gastronomic capital of Paris , which ranks third with 92 Michelin-starred restaurants. This is the tenth edition of the Michelin Tokyo guide , and the Japan Times points out four restaurants have maintained the coveted three-star rating for the duration. They include famed sushi destination Sukiyabashi Jiro ( subject of the hit documentary Jiro Dreams of Sushi ) and legendary French chef Joel Robuchon ’ s eponymous fine-dining restaurant.
Earlier this year , Eater reported that Gordon Ramsay alum Clare Smyth was working on her first solo project , and now , that restaurant has a name and official opening date : Core by Clare Smyth is set to open this July in London , Bloomberg ’ s Richard Vines reported on Twitter. Speaking to The Caterer , Smyth said , “ With it being my first solo venture and very close to my heart , it wasn ’ t easy deciding what to call the restaurant , but ‘ Core ’ seemed right ; it ’ s a seed of something new , with strong ties to nature. ” Smyth became the first female chef in the UK with three Michelin stars during her tenure at the head of Restaurant Gordon Ramsay beginning in 2007. She left that restaurant in 2015 , and initially planned her solo project for last year , but ran into delays. According to The Caterer , Core will be a “ modern fine-dining restaurant with a strong British ethos. ” Inside the 54-seat dining room at 92 Kensington Park Road in London ’ s Notting Hill , Smyth plans to serve a tasting menu of between 10 and 12 dishes. Diners can opt for the full tasting , or choose three or five of the constantly changing courses. The restaurant also includes an 18-seat cocktail bar at the entrance.
At Walt Disney World , nearly everything qualifies as a breakfast. Hot dogs are slung by 10 a.m. , last night ’ s desserts double as sugary morning fare , and the Dole Whip stand opens earlier than your usual workday begins. Truly , there are no rules. But while the options are boundless , sitting down to a full meal of eggs , bacon , and toast here can be a merciless catch-22 : You either cannibalize your early-morning park time ( precious hours when ride lines are shorter than usual ) with dining , or forego the serious sustenance required for the long day ahead. There are , in fact , some fantastic eye-openers on the property , but you ’ ll have to know where to find them. Which is why we ’ ve highlighted the best breakfast tacos to scarf on the run , specialty foods worth taking a break for , and when you should just rely on the emergency granola bars in your backpack.
During Monday ’ s installment of Fox & Friends , Rob Colburn , president of the Border Patrol Foundation , downplayed the tear-gassing of asylum seekers and migrants by US Border Patrol agents on Sunday by comparing pepper spray with something you ’ d eat at a ballgame. “ To clarify , the type of deterrent being used is OC pepper spray. It ’ s literally water , pepper , with a small amount of alcohol for evaporation purposes. It ’ s natural — you could actually put it on your nachos and eat it , ” Colburn said. “ So it ’ s a good way of deterring people without long-term harm. ” Host Steve Doocy carried on with the interview as though Colburn ’ s comment were a totally normal thing to say. On Fox & Friends , Border Patrol Foundation president defends pepper spraying latinx migrants because “ it ’ s natural. You could actually put it on your nachos and eat it. ” pic.twitter.com/QLdQXqqNno
What do you do when your son tarnishes your good name with a corrupt restaurant business ? You sue him. That 's what famed singer Gladys Knight is doing , according to TMZ. Knight has reportedly filed a lawsuit against Shanga Hankerson , her own flesh and blood , to have her name removed from the Gladys Knight 's Signature Chicken & Waffles chain. Hankerson operated the Atlanta-based chain before a Georgia Department of Revenue raid in June. Authorities targeted the singer 's son for allegedly " stealing over $ 650,000 in both sales and withholding tax. " With penalties and interest , GDR officials say Hankerson owes more than $ 1 million. Following the raid , he was arrested and released on bail , and the restaurants are under new management. Knight was not implicated in the allegations , and a GDR official told Channel 2 in Atlanta she was " totally in the clear. " A statement from a spokesperson said " her main concern is for her family 's well-being , and she is making sure the family has the guidance they need to assess the situation and move forward. "
It ’ s official. Chipotle is getting into the burger game. After months of speculation , Chipotle today confirmed a few details regarding its forthcoming burger concept. As Eater was the first to report , the restaurant will be called Tasty Made , and will make its debut in Lancaster , Ohio this fall. The new concept will specialize in burgers , fries , and milkshakes. According to a press release , Tasty Made will take a page from Chipotle ’ s book when it comes to serving " food with integrity " ( although that phrase has been called into question thanks to last year ’ s E.coli outbreak ) . " Tasty Made will use Responsibly Raised brand beef ( from animals that are raised in more humane ways and without the use of antibiotics or added hormones ) , shakes made with real ingredients including milk , cream , sugar , eggs and other natural ingredients , and fresh-made buns that are free of preservatives , dough conditioners and other artificial ingredients , " reads the release.
Finding an exemplary dining experience or dish isn ’ t a given in a resort like Walt Disney World , where efficiency can trump flavor. But the sprawling complex boasts a wide variety of standout and even destination-worthy dishes for those willing to look for them. These are meals people remember for years , that they stalk the recipes of , that they clamor for the second they return. From hulking pieces of meat to hall-of-fame ice cream sandwiches , high-end French fare to a bowl of cheese soup , we found all of the spectacular dishes and restaurants and compiled them , Eater-style , into this Disney 38. Anyone planning a trip to Orlando should consider this a cheat sheet for the best and brightest across the parks. Update 12/2018 : Disney has been opening more restaurants than movies as of late , packing celebrity chefs and cultural cuisines into its newly revamped Disney Springs downtown area , ” says Disney expert Carlye Wisel. “ Many of Disney World ’ s best additions have been coming out of impressive openings and updated menus , showcasing just how far Disney is willing to go to please foodies — even adding Mobile Order to essentially Fast Pass the restaurant lines. ” Wisel ’ s taking one-time Eater favorites like buffalo chicken sliders , gyro flatbreads , and lefse off the list , making way for chicharrones , falafel , hoisin ribs and so much more.
Otha Turner was an integral part of his Mississippi community , both as a musician and an event planner. The notable fife player , part of the recording and performing group The Gravel Springs Fife and Drum Band , is remembered in this short video from the Southern Foodways Alliance for the annual Labor Day picnic he thew on his property , to which everyone in the area was invited for food and live music. Turner 's picnic tradition began in the 1950s , and continued until his death in 2003 at the age of 95. In addition to blues performances from his group and others , Turner 's parties included the butchering and grilling of a whole goat ( hence the name of one of The Gravel Springs Fife and Drum Band 's later albums , " Everybody Hollerin ' Goat " ) . Watch the video above for a look at one of Turner 's community-wide events , from Labor Day weekend 1978.
